我现在要离开这里么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Am I leaving here now? {w}{w=0.5}
这上古龙宫似乎还有未探明的地方。¤There seems to be unexplored areas in this Ancient Dragon Palace.
你运起幽炎决，眼前的火墙露出一个缺口。¤You activate the Dark Flame Art and a gap appears in the fire wall in front of you. 
眼前是一面火墙，触之甚至可以灼伤神魂。¤Before me is a wall of fire, touching which could even scorch the Soul. 
目前此处似乎不能过去，先去别的地方看看吧。¤At the moment, it seems we cannot go through this place. Let's go somewhere else and take a look.
要进去吗？¤Would you like to go in?
眼前的废墟之上，一股怨气凝而不散。¤Above the ruins before my eyes, a lingering resentment condensed. 
这上古战场虽是凶险，却也暗藏不少宝贝。¤Although this Ancient Battlefield is dangerous, it also contains a lot of hidden treasures.
眼前是一片废墟瓦砾，即使到了今天也依旧诉说着当年战况的惨烈。¤Before me lies a ruins of rubble, still bearing witness to the horrendous battles fought many years ago.
要前往龙脉之内吗？¤Do you want to go inside the Dragon Veins? 
御~水~台~¤Imperial Water Platform
这里便是上古龙宫吧，真不愧是龙族啊，{xiaozi}你看那边的五龙戏珠。¤This must be the ancient dragon palace, truly worthy of the dragon clan. {xiaozi}, look at the five dragons playing with pearls over there.
映入眼帘的是一个残破的雕像，感受不到什么灵气了。¤What I see in front of me is a broken statue, devoid of any spiritual energy. 
这是？¤What is this? 
等等这金木水火土五龙，各是使用庚金、牙木铁、万载火铜精等四品材料炼制而成，这个用量做个百十把上品法宝都不在话下了吧。¤Wait a moment, these five dragons of metal, wood, water, fire and earth are all refined using fourth grade materials such as aged metal, toothwood iron, and 10,000 year fire copper essence. The amount needed for this is enough to make hundreds of top-grade artifacts without a problem. 
中间那颗珠子？...霍~好大一颗万载冰心石啊，这用来炼器至少得是十份的量了吧。¤What about the middle bead?...Oh~ Such a huge 10,000 years ice heart stone, refining with this would require at least ten portions.
这不是普通雕塑，这是一座依托于灵脉的巨型聚灵阵，而其中冰心石更是能平心静气在修炼时防止走火入魔。¤This is not an ordinary sculpture, it's a huge gathering spirit array built on top of a spiritual vein. The ice heart stone helps to remain calm during cultivation and prevent falling into evil practices.
传闻上古时期，龙族乃海中霸主，水中万族来朝，可以想象当年这里成千上万妖族修炼的场景了。¤Rumours say that in ancient times, the dragon clan was the ruler of the sea, with all water clans coming to pay tribute. One can imagine the thousands of demonic clans cultivating here back then.
虽然这阵法早就毁了，但是你凭借你在器道的造诣完全可以凝练出其中材料。¤Although this array has long been destroyed, with your mastery of refinery dao, you can completely refine the materials from it.
唉，这阵法早就毁了，这些材料也在时间流逝中灵力尽失宛若废铁。¤Alas, this array has long been destroyed, and these materials have lost their spiritual energy over time, becoming nothing but scrap metal.
只见五龙雕塑和那颗灵珠，在你真火的包裹之中不断缩小。¤I saw the five dragon sculptures and the spiritual pearl continuously shrinking within your true fire enclosure.
嗯。¤Umm. 
进去看看吧，小心点啊，这上古龙宫今日重见天日，不知有何危险，你自己小心。¤Go inside and take a look, be careful though. The ancient dragon palace has resurfaced today, and we do not know what dangers await. Be cautious.
路过广场，继续向着深处进发，周围的残垣断壁缓缓后退，无不诉说着龙族曾经的辉煌。¤Passing by the square, I continued to venture deeper as the surrounding ruins slowly receded, each telling the tale of the Dragon Clan's past glory. 
立于脚边的是一个破败的石碑，上面的字迹极难辨认。¤At the foot stood a dilapidated stone monument, with very difficult to discern inscriptions. 
眼前一座破败的建筑，旁边有一座石碑，上书乾龙阁三个大字。¤In front of my eyes stands a dilapidated building, and beside it is a stone tablet with the words "Dry Dragon Palace" inscribed on it. 
乾龙阁...嗯....我若是没有记错的话，这乾龙阁应是上古龙族的秘法库。¤乾龙阁... Hmm... If my memory serves me right, this 'dry dragon palace' should be the ancient dragon clan's secret library.
唉~不过，这上古龙宫历经变故，又在海底沉寂了这么久，哪儿还能剩下什么？¤However, this ancient dragon palace has gone through changes and has been dormant in the sea for so long, so there might not be anything left.
果不其然，没有什么收获啊，这些垃圾还不如刚才广场上的那些呢。¤As expected, there was no harvest. These rubbish things are not as good as those on the square just now. 
眼前尽是废墟。¤Before my eyes are nothing but ruins.
移步换景，你进入那破败的阁楼之中。¤Step forth and change the scenery, you enter within that dilapidated attic.
话音未落突然，天空中出现巨兽虚影。¤Suddenly, as the words died down, a massive phantom beast appeared in the sky. 
吾乃龙族传功长老九玄。¤I am Elder Jiu Xuan, of the Dragon Clan, responsible for transmitting techniques.
来人可是我族供奉？现在是何时？来跟我说说现在我族近况如何？¤guest elder
来人可是我族后裔？现在是何时？来跟我说说现在族中近况如何？¤Has a descendant of our clan arrived? What is the current time? Can you tell me about the recent situation within our clan? 
你将自上古之战后龙族近况一一道来。¤You will recount the recent developments of the dragon clan since the ancient war.
这么说，鲲族余孽依旧滋扰我族。¤So it seems that the remnants of the Kun race are still causing trouble for our tribe.
可恨！！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Despicable!!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
没错。¤Correct.
（这缕残魂不同于之前所见，似乎还保有灵智。）¤This remnant soul is different from what was seen before, it seems to still possess consciousness.
活？算是吧，我借助龙脉之力，将自己封印陷入沉睡，方才能苟活至今。¤Dragon veins
敢问前辈是如何活到现在的。¤May I ask, senior, how have you managed to live until now?
只见天空中的虚影淡了几分，你能感受到眼前的残魂已是油尽灯枯。¤The phantom in the sky has faded slightly, and you can feel that the remnant soul before you is running on fumes.
哈哈，看来我已经没有时间了。¤Haha, it seems like I have run out of time. 
说罢，一只玉玺出现在你面前。¤After speaking, a jade imperial seal appears in front of you.
这九龙玺是龙皇象征，小友定要带出去交给当代龙皇。¤The Nine Dragons Seal is a symbol of the Dragon Emperor, and young friend must deliver it to the current Dragon Emperor.
不过我九玄可不会让小友白跑一趟，这《幽炎诀》乃我本人自创的控火法门这就传授与你。¤But don't worry, young friend, I won't let you come all this way for nothing. This 《Phantom Inferno Technique》 is my personally created method of fire control. I will pass it on to you.
那虚影之中飞出一道光球直奔你眉心。¤A ball of light flew out from within the phantom and headed straight towards your forehead.
哈哈哈哈，学了我这《幽炎诀》，小友可定要去引雷池看看啊。¤Hahaha, after learning my 《Phantom Inferno Technique》, my young friend must go and check out the Thunder Pool for sure.
兄长我来了。小友切记，切记大仇不可忘，传承不可断。¤Brother, I have arrived. Remember, young friend, never forget your great revenge and do not break the inheritance.
随着一声声爽朗的笑声，眼前的残魂消散于空中。¤With hearty laughter, the remnant soul in front dissipated into the air. 
走吧，仙途漫漫，长生难求。没什么好感慨的。¤Let's go, the path of immortals is long and eternal life is hard to come by. Okay, there's nothing to be sentimental about.
我竟完全没有发现这残魂的存在？？！！¤I completely failed to notice the existence of this remnant soul?!!
你收起震惊将自上古之战后龙族近况一一道来。¤You reveal the current situation of the dragon clan since the ancient war.
皇龙殿？这里就是议事大殿了吧。¤Royal Dragon Palace? This should be the Imperial Dragon Hall, right?
嗯，看情形这龙宫大殿自上古一战之中已经毁灭了。¤Well, it seems that the Dragon Palace main hall has been destroyed since the ancient war.
眼前数具巨大龙尸与鲲尸匐于废墟之上。¤Several enormous dragon and Kun corpses lay prostrate upon the ruins before my eyes.
是啊，上古鲲龙之战堪称惨烈啊。¤Yes, the ancient battle between Kunlun Dragon and Koi Fish was truly brutal.
这几具尸体从能量波动看来生前都是元婴强者啊。¤These few corpses, based on their energy fluctuations, were all powerful Nascent Soul cultivators in their lifetime.
不过，此地作为上古战场，应是极阴大凶之地，有渊血冥花、厉魂血珀的宝物产出。¤However, as an ancient battlefield, this land is likely a place of extreme yin and great danger, where treasures such as Abyssal Bloodbloom and Ravenous Soul Amber can be found. 
吼~~¤Roar~~ 
“轰~轰~~”¤Boom~ Boom~~
只见一只鲲向你冲来。¤A huge whale is charging towards you. 
你感受到其中阵阵能量波动传出，似是有人在轰击禁制。¤You sense waves of energy emanating from it, as if someone is bombarding the restriction. 
进入楼中，眼前尽是废墟，大量法宝残片与流矢灵力的法宝躺在地上。¤Upon entering the tower, all that lay before me were ruins, with numerous artifact fragments and magic arrows laying scattered on the ground. 
你感受到，九龙玺似有感应轻轻颤动。¤You feel a slight vibration as if the Nine Dragons Seal has been activated. 
眼前的空间泛起波纹，裂开一道光门。¤The space in front of my eyes ripples and a beam of light splits open a portal. 
我还是先去其他地方看看吧。¤I'll go check out other places first.
你感受到，此地或有玄妙但不得要领。¤You sense that there is something mystical about this place, but you cannot quite grasp its essence. 
嗯？这里应该还有一层空间被封印了。¤Hmm? There seems to be another level sealed off here.
哈哈，不过如此嘛~¤Haha, that's all it is.
眼前的是一片巨大的陷坑，一旁破败的石碑上写着灵药园，三个大字。¤The scene before me is a huge pit, with a dilapidated stele beside it bearing three big characters that read "Spirit Medicine Garden". 
看来这就是上古龙宫的灵药园，不过已经被喷涌的龙脉之力摧毁殆尽了。¤It seems to be the Spirit Medicine Garden of the Ancient Dragon Palace, but it has been completely destroyed by the surging power of dragon veins. 
想必玄道宗正是通过这股灵气以感应天魔令持有者位置的吧。¤The Xuan Dao Sect is most likely using this spiritual energy to sense the location of Heavenly Demon Order holders.
正如{shixiong}所言，这东西可得小心宝贝着，不然寻个机缘倒要搭上性命。¤As {shixiong} said, this thing must be handled with care, or else it may cost you your life. 
要是你停止运转功法，以你现在的体质，应该只能坚持几分钟的时间。¤If you stop using your techniques, with your current physique, you can only hold on for a few minutes.
看样子想和大师兄说上话要先排队才行了，不如乘机问一下前面的同门在此等候的目的。¤It seems like if you want to talk to Senior Brother, you'll have to queue up first. Why not take the opportunity to ask the fellow disciples in front of you about the purpose of waiting here for Dashi? 
师兄......¤Senior brother. 
感觉怎么样？¤How do you feel? 
有意思，这离火门挺大的手笔，居然将整座山门建在一座活火山之上，还弄了座大阵，将火灵气都聚集在一起，难怪气温会如此之高。¤Interesting, the Fire Gate Sect really went all out, building their entire mountain gate on top of an active volcano and setting up a huge formation to gather all the fire spirits together. No wonder the temperature here is so high. 
你对火之道的感悟略微提升了。¤Your understanding of the path of fire has been slightly enlightened.
走在前面的离火门弟子停下脚步，回头看了你一眼。¤The fire gate disciple leading the way stopped in their tracks and glanced back at you. 
（怪不得刚刚那离火门弟子说，只有意志坚定，一心向道的人才能坚持下去...）¤(It's no wonder that the Fire Gate disciple just said that only those with unwavering determination and a single-minded pursuit of the Dao can withstand the trials...)
路我就带到这里，那边在广场上舞剑的，就是我们的大师兄炎萧，目前外门弟子的相关事宜都由他来负责，你先去向大师兄报道吧。¤I'll stop here. Over there on the square, the one practicing sword is our senior brother Yan Xiao. He's currently in charge of all outer disciple affairs. You should go report to him first.
他递给你一块玉白色令牌，触手温润厚实，上面似有若无的灵力波动给人一种中正宁和之感。¤He handed you a jade-white token, with a warm and thick texture, and a vague spiritual energy fluctuation that gives a sense of balance and tranquility.
稍后会有长老带队引领诸位师弟师妹前往天魔眼，{shidi}若无要事可一同出发。¤Later, an elder will lead the way to the Heavenly Demon's Eye with junior brothers and sisters following. {shidi} may join us if there are no urgent matters. 
别看我这副模样，其实我今年才25岁。¤Don't judge me by my appearance, actually I'm only 25 years old this year.
既然你能坚持走到这里，那你便算是我们离火门的外门弟子了。¤Since you have managed to make it this far, you are now considered an outer disciple of the Fire Gate Sect.
快看！那就是上次在天魔眼被玄道宗长老称赞的{shidi}！¤Look! That's the {shidi} who was praised by the mystic dao sect elder in the Heavenly Devil's Eye last time! 
嘘，长老过来了，你声音小些。¤Shh, the elder is coming over, lower your voice.
参与外门讲法，修为+{color=#d0380a}500{/color}¤Participate in lectures for outer disciples, cultivation +{color=#d0380a}500{/color}.
宗门广场较往日热闹许多，大师兄像是在分发某样物品。他面前身的修士排成长龙，放眼望去就连几位平日醉心修练的师兄弟也站在其中。¤The gate square is much busier than usual, with Senior Brother handing out some items. Cultivators lined up in front of him, including a few brothers who usually immerse themselves in cultivation. 
你来到宗门广场，擂台已经搭好，不少外门弟子三五成群地聚集于此，每三十年一次的宗门大比就要开始了...¤You arrive at the gate square of the clan, where the arena is set up and many outer disciples have gathered in groups. The clan competition, which takes place every thirty years, is about to begin... Okay. 
这么说来，若天魔令丢失的话岂不是一辈子都要困在那里了？¤So, if the Heavenly Demon Order is lost, does that mean we'll be trapped there forever?
也不知他是怎么杀了那么多魔物的...要是我也能这么厉害就好了。¤I don't know how he managed to kill so many spirit beasts... I wish I could be as powerful as him.
（好热...即便是不停地运转灵气护住周身，也可以感受到滚滚而来的热浪。）¤Okay...it's so hot. Even with continuous activation of spiritual energy to protect my body, I can still sense the rolling waves of heat.
{shidi}，稍后便会有长老带我们一同前往天魔眼，你若无要事的话便可同我们一起出发。¤{shidi}, later an elder will take us to the Heavenly Devil's Eye. If you have no urgent matters, you can come with us.
{shixiong}怎地甚也不知？这天魔令乃玄道宗所制，凡是进入天魔眼的各大门派弟子都必须携带，否则无法从试炼之地脱身。¤Brother {shixiong}, why do you not know? The Heavenly Demon Order is created by Xuan Dao Sect, and all disciples from major sects who enter the Trial Place must carry it, or they will not be able to leave the place of trials.
天魔令？¤The Heavenly Demon Order. 
噗嗤，那个猎魔试炼杀了{$TempValue}只魔物的{shidi}回来了。¤Ha ha, that hunter who went on the demon-hunting trial came back after killing {$TempValue} spirit beasts, according to {shidi}.
宗门广场较往日热闹许多，大师兄像是在分发某样物品。他面前的修士排成长龙，放眼望去就连几位平日醉心修练的师兄弟也站在其中。¤The gate square is much livelier than usual, and senior brother is distributing some items. Cultivators are lining up in front of him, including some brothers who are usually devoted to training.
站在你前方的人相貌老成，似乎应该称呼他师兄。¤The person standing in front of you has a mature appearance, and it seems appropriate to address him as "senior brother." 
“果然人无完人，天才也是会有缺陷的......”¤“It’s true that no one is perfect, even geniuses have flaws…” 
叫谁师兄呢？长得老也算是错吗？¤Who should I call senior brother? Is it wrong if he looks old?
玄道宗长老虽是元婴大能，也不可长时运作如此庞大的阵法。届时{shixiong}怀揣天魔令，便于玄道宗捕捉你的方位。¤The Elder of Mystic Dao Sect, although a Nascent Soul expert, cannot maintain such a large array for an extended period. At that time, {shixiong} with the Heavenly Demon Order can easily locate and capture you on behalf of Xuan Dao Sect. 
请问师弟，大家聚集于此是为了......？¤May I ask junior, why has everyone gathered here for...?
这便是天魔令，{FirstName}{shidi}切忌遗失，否则将迷失在试炼之地中。¤This is the Heavenly Demon Order. {FirstName}{shidi}, remember not to lose it, or you will be lost in the Trial Place. 
你二人相谈甚欢，只觉时间飞逝，很快就来到大师兄面前。¤The two of you talked happily and felt time flying by, soon arriving before Senior Brother. 
{shixiong}可是刚历练结束？猎魔试炼不日开启，炎萧大师兄正在发放{color=#d0380a}天魔令{/color}给即将启程的离火门弟子呢。¤Senior brother, have you just finished your training? The Demon Hunt trial is about to begin, and Dashi Yan Xiao is currently distributing the Heavenly Demon Order to the Fire Gate disciples who will embark on the journey soon.
唉，你这次猎魔试炼的表现实在拖离火门后腿，此后可千万勤加修炼，切莫再如此丢老夫的脸面。¤Your performance in the demon hunting trial really dragged down the Fire Gate Sect. You must work harder in cultivation from now on and never embarrass me like this again.
待{color=#d0380a}三十日{/color}期满，玄道宗长老法力恢复，即可将诸门派弟子传出天魔眼。¤After {color=#d0380a}thirty{/color} days, once the mystic dao sect elder recovers their power, they can release the disciples of the sect from the heavenly devil's eye. 
你来到宗门广场，传功长老正在讲法，不少外门弟子也已经来到了这里。这场讲法预计会持续一个月的时间，你准备参加么？¤You arrive at the sect plaza, where the instructor elder is explaining the rules and many outer disciples have already arrived. This lecture is expected to last for a month, are you prepared to participate? 
嗯，不错。¤Uh, not bad.
还是先去找大师兄报道把。¤It's better to go and report to Senior Brother first.
哈哈哈，这可是我们竹山宗的幸事啊。以天灵根这样的资质天赋，哪怕只是安安稳稳的待在门内修炼，未来至少也能有金丹期的成就。¤Haha, this is the fortunate occurrence of our Bamboo Mountain Sect. With a heavenly spirit root and such innate aptitude, even if one just cultivates peacefully within the sect, one can at least achieve the golden core stage in the future.
是。¤Yes.
{FirstName}师侄，你可曾听说过“天魔眼”？¤{FirstName}'s nephew, have you ever heard of the 'Heavenly Devil's Eye'?
世间纷扰众多，望你勤加修炼，莫要分心。¤Amidst the chaos of the world, I hope you diligently cultivate and do not stray from your path. 
青蛇是我派最年轻的长老，但一身{color=#d0380a}毒功{/color}已经出神入化，实乃我派千年一遇的奇才。他的独门功法是《五毒蚀心诀》。¤Green Snake is the youngest Elder in our sect, but his {color=#d0380a}heart corroding venom technique{/color} is already extraordinary, making him a once-in-a-millennium genius in our sect. His unique technique is the 《Five Poison Corrosion Heart Technique》.
小友，我问你，你可愿意拜入我门下，做我的亲传弟子？¤Young friend, I ask you, are you willing to become my personal disciple and join my sect?
千万年来，因为实力不济，或是心智不够坚定而身死道销的“天才”数不胜数。古人云：成大事者，必先苦其心志，劳其筋骨。¤Those who achieve great things must first endure hardships and toughen their willpower and physical strength. 
另外，按本派的规矩，外门弟子若是能突破筑基期，便能晋升为内门弟子，拜入我派在座的任意一名长老门下继续修行。¤Additionally, according to our sect's rules, if an outer disciple is able to break through to foundation establishment, they may be promoted to an inner disciple and continue their cultivation under the guidance of any elder present in our sect. 
除了我以外，本门还有三名授业长老在招收弟子，你想先了解哪一位？¤Apart from me, there are three instructor elders in our sect who are recruiting disciples. Which one do you want to know more about? 
他没有太多表示，只是冷冷地朝你点了点头。¤He didn't say much and just coldly nodded his head at you. 
你走到紫菱仙子身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Fairy Ziling, and perform the rites of passage by paying your respects as a disciple. 
长春真人是我的师弟，同样精通{color=#d0380a}缠绕{/color}法门，已将我派的《万象寄生诀》练到极为高深的层次。¤Paragon Eternal Spring is my junior, proficient in the {color=#d0380a}tangled{/color} technique, and has mastered our sect's 《Infinite Parasitism》 to an extremely advanced level. 
按古籍记载，这天魔眼所在的地方，本是宁州一处极为富饶的灵脉所在。但不知从何时起，这里竟开始源源不断地产生魔气。¤According to ancient books, the location of the Heavenly Devil's Eye was originally a place of extremely rich spirit veins in Ningzhou. However, at some unknown time, magic qi began to continuously emerge here. 
……依我之见，纵然是天灵根，若不好生雕琢，将来也未必能成大器。¤In my opinion, even if one has a Heavenly Spirit Root, without proper nurturing and cultivation, they may not necessarily become a great talent in the future.
谢谢师父。¤Thank you Master. 
万年前的那场正魔大战，魔道大费周章入侵宁州，便是为了解除这天魔眼的封印。虽然最终击退了魔道，但天魔眼的封印也因此出现了松动。此后，偶尔散溢的魔气便会慢慢凝聚成一种没有灵智的下等魔。¤The great battle between righteousness and demon that happened ten thousand years ago, the demonic path invaded Ningzhou to release the seal of the Heavenly Devil's Eye. Although the demonic path was eventually repelled, the seal of the Heavenly Devil's Eye was also loosened as a result. Since then, the occasionally scattered magic qi will gradually condense into an inferior demon without intelligence. 
本座如今修为已达元婴期瓶颈，要专心为之后的天劫做好准备，青麟是本座的关门弟子，之后也不会再收弟子了。¤My cultivation has currently reached the bottleneck of the nascent soul stage. I need to focus on preparing for the upcoming tribulation. Qinglin is my closed-door disciple, and I will not be accepting any more disciples in the future.
当然，参加猎魔试炼也有不小的危险，虽然门派会有相应的奖励补偿，但是否参与还是全凭自愿。距离下一次的猎魔试炼还有一段时间，你可以去找参加过往届试炼的师兄了解情况以后，再作决定。¤Of course, participating in the devil-hunting trial is not without danger. Although the sect will provide compensatory rewards, whether to participate or not is entirely up to the individual. There is still some time before the next devil-hunting trial. You can go to seek advice from senior brothers who have participated in past trials before making a decision.
好了，诸位先别吵了。我看这样，还是让这位小友自己选吧。¤Okay, everyone calm down for now. I think it's better to let this young friend choose for themselves.
这些下等魔短期内虽然不足为虑，但若是放任不管，也会带来不少祸端。因此，我们各大门派约定俗成，每隔二十年会打开一次天魔眼外的禁制，令门内弟子前去清缴。¤Although these inferior demons are not worrisome in the short term, if left unchecked they are likely to cause many disasters. Therefore, our various sects have agreed that every twenty years we will open the prohibition outside the Heavenly Devil's Eye and send our disciples to eliminate them. 
此针，名为青蛇，乃是我年轻时所炼制最为顺手的武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This needle, named Green Snake, is the most handy weapon I refined in my youth. Today, I will give it to you as a gift for our meeting.
好，在你{color=#d0380a}结丹之前{/color}，就由为师来指点你吧。¤Okay, before you {color=#d0380a}core{/color}, let me guide you as your master. 
你走到青蛇真人身前，行拜师之礼。¤You approach Paragon Azure Snake and perform the Rites of Passage to become their disciple. 
师尊，本届的宗门大比的结果出来了，这次夺魁的是{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}。¤Master, the results of this year's clan competition are in. The winner this time is {FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}.
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一只玉盒扔给了你。你用神识扫过，盒中是一套飞针法器。¤After speaking, the master took out a jade box from the storage pouch and threw it to you. You scanned it with your Soul Sense and found a set of Flying Needle Magic Tools inside. 
她笑着向你点了点头。¤She smiled and nodded at you. 
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一把剑递给了你。¤After speaking, the master took out a sword from a storage pouch and handed it to you. 
灵脉遭到污染，附近的妖兽与人类也被魔气侵蚀魔化，当时的几大修真门派付出了很大的代价，才将这处魔地封印起来，阻止了魔气的进一步扩散。¤The spiritual veins were contaminated, and nearby spirit beasts and humans were also enchanted and corrupted by magic qi. At the time, several major sects of cultivation paid a great price to seal this magical land, preventing the further spread of magic qi. 
紫菱师姐，此言差矣，掌门师兄还未发话，我们几人可一样可以有权利收他为徒。长春师兄，你怎么看？¤Senior Sister Ziling, your words are incorrect. Master Senior Brother has not yet spoken, and the rest of us also have the right to take him as our disciple. Senior Brother Eternal Spring, what do you think? 
天灵根，你可确定？¤Heavenly Spirit Root, are you certain?
{FirstName}{LastName}，按大比的规矩，从今日起你就是我派的内门弟子了。¤{FirstName}{LastName}, according to the rules of the Grand Competition, from today onwards you are an inner disciple of our sect. 
的的确确是纯净的天灵根，没有一丝一毫的杂灵根，这点我看的清清楚楚。¤It is indeed a pure heavenly spirit root, without any trace of impurities or mixed spiritual roots. I can see this very clearly.
这把剑名为飞花，乃为师年轻时所炼制，用起来颇为顺手。今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤The name of this sword is Feihua, which was crafted by my master when he was young. It works quite smoothly when used. I will give it to you as a gift for our first meeting.
希望你学成之后能闯出点名堂来，莫要辱没为师的名头！¤I hope you can achieve something after your studies and not tarnish the reputation of your teacher! 
不错，不错...本门下一届能参加猎魔试炼的筑基弟子又算增加一人，实乃可喜可贺之事啊。¤Not bad, not bad... The next generation of foundation building disciples in our sect who can participate in the Demon Hunting Trial has increased by one. It is truly a joyous and celebratory occasion.
距离下一次的猎魔试炼还有一段时间，你可以去找参加过往届试炼的师兄了解情况以后，再作决定。¤There is some time until the next demon-hunting trial, so you can go find a senior brother who has participated in past trials to understand the situation before making a decision.
修仙一途有太多邪魔歪道，为师只希望你能一直坚守正道，恪守本心。¤On the path of cultivating immortality, there are too many demonic and twisted ways. As your teacher, I only hope that you can always uphold the right path and remain true to yourself.
不错，不错，你这{xiaozi}还算是有眼光。¤Not bad, not bad... You {xiaozi} still have some good taste.
此剑，名为虬木，你收着吧。¤This sword is called Qiumu, please take it.
{FirstName}{LastName}，你虽有百年难得一遇的灵根天赋，但修炼一途也并非只靠着天赋便能取得大成就的。¤{FirstName}{LastName}, although you have rare spiritual roots that only occur once every hundred years, the path of cultivation does not solely rely on natural talent to achieve great success. 
见过掌门师伯。¤I have met the master.
猎魔试炼？¤Monster Hunting Trial?
嗯，既然你已经有所了解，那我便不再多说了。参加猎魔试炼也有不小的危险，虽然门派会有相应的奖励补偿，但是否参与还是全凭自愿。¤Mhmm, since you already have some understanding, I won't say much more. Participating in the demon hunting trial is also risky, although the sect will provide corresponding rewards and compensation, whether or not to participate is entirely up to one's own choice.
师尊，{FirstName}{shidi}近日已突破至筑基期，特来禀明此事。¤Master, {FirstName}{shidi} has recently broken through to the Foundation Establishment stage and has come to report this matter to you.
紫菱是我派大长老，修为不弱于我。她主修的《九冲图集》乃我派秘术，能够利用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力提升木系法门的威能，并使对手被多种负面状态缠身，威能不俗。¤Ziling is the grand elder of our sect, with a cultivation level not weaker than mine. She specializes in the Nine Rush Atlas Arts, which is a secret art of our sect that can utilize the power of the Five Elements to enhance the power of wood-based techniques and afflict opponents with various negative statuses. Its power is not to be underestimated.
这么一来，你就是我的徒弟了，在你{color=#d0380a}结丹之前{/color}，可要好好照我说的练。¤Okay, so now you're my disciple. Before you core up, make sure to practice as I've instructed and {color=#d0380a}utilize your qi and focus{/color}.
既然如此，{color=#d0380a}结丹之前{/color}，便由我来指导你。¤If that's the case, {color=#d0380a}before forming your Core{/color}, let me guide you.
禀掌门师尊，今年的招收的外门弟子中，收取到了一名资质鉴定为天灵根的弟子，名叫{FirstName}{LastName}！¤To the Master, this year's recruitment of outer disciples has brought in a disciple named {FirstName}{LastName} with a heavenly spirit root aptitude.
此番虽破格收录你为内门弟子，但你仍需在外门磨炼数年，与其他炼气期的外门弟子一样修行，不能有半点骄横。¤Although you are accepted as an inner disciple despite not meeting the usual requirements, you still need to train in the outer sect for several years and cultivate like other outer sect disciples at the qi refining stage. You must not be arrogant in the slightest.
弟子谨记掌门教诲。¤Disciple remembers Master's teachings respectfully.
你走到长春真人身前，行拜师之礼。¤You approach Paragon Eternal Spring and perform the Rites of Passage to become their disciple.
要离开这里么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Are you leaving here?
眼前是一根完好的引雷柱。¤Before my eyes stood a perfectly intact lightning pillar.
此物乃是上古龙族遗物，先行收走吧。¤This is an ancient relic of the Dragon Clan, please take it away first.
眼前的引雷柱已经损坏。¤The lightning pillar in front of me is already damaged.
可惜...¤Regrettable, a pity, it's a shame, too bad.
“轰~~”¤Boom~~
你立足未稳却有数道闪电，直扑面门而来。¤You stand unsteadily, yet several lightning bolts flash towards you, heading straight for your face.
那是？¤What is that?
定睛看去，半空中一团雷云凝聚，雷云之中竟有一团银色火焰。¤Upon closer observation, a thundercloud condensed in mid-air, containing a silver flame within the thundercloud.
{vpunch=10,0.5}九龙天雷火？？？！！！这传说竟是真的？¤Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire?!?! Is this legend actually true? {vpunch=10,0.5}
与老爷子心神相通的你，感受到魏无极现在心神动荡，甚至神魂不稳。¤As someone who shares a mental connection with the old man, you sense that Wei Wuji's mind is currently in turmoil, and even his soul is unsteady.
师父？¤Master?
师父？？！！¤Master?!!
{vpunch=10,0.5}老头？？？！！！¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Old man???!!!
臭{xiaozi}喊什么喊？懂不懂尊师重道？¤What is this {xiaozi} yelling about? Do they not understand the importance of respecting teachers and following the righteous path?
此物究竟是？¤What is this thing exactly?
呼~~为师若是没有猜错，这应该就是龙族世代相承的异火“九龙天雷火”。¤Ah~~ If I'm not mistaken, this should be the Dragon Clan's hereditary Different Fire, the 'Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire'.
这九龙天雷火本是于雷鸣海“九霄雷狱”之中诞生的异火，有引雷淬体之效，加之龙族历代龙皇辅以龙脉温养，同时又有炼魂养魄之效，据传当年龙族元婴强者突破化神之时都会借助此火淬体炼魂。¤The Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire is a different fire that originated in the Thunder Prison of the Thunder Sea, which has the effect of tempering the body with thunder. Throughout generations, the Dragon Emperors of the Dragon Clan have nurtured it with the Dragon Veins, and it also has the effect of refining the soul and nourishing the spirit. It is said that when the powerful Nascent Soul experts of the Dragon Clan breakthrough to Deity Transformation, they would use this fire to temper their bodies and refine their souls.
炼魂养魄？老头那你是不是也能...还阳了？¤Refining soul and nurturing spirit? Old man, can you also... revive the dead?
哪有这么容易？不过若能修补神魂，至少能离开这剑...¤How can it be so easy? But if I can repair my soul, at least I can leave this sword...
这位寄宿于剑中的道友若能得九龙天雷火温养确实大有裨益。¤If this fellow daoist residing within the sword can obtain the Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire for cultivation, it will certainly be greatly beneficial.
{vpunch=10,0.5}谁？（我竟没有发现此地还有旁人。）¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Who? (I didn't realize there was someone else here.)
还未介绍自己，本座龙皇九霄。¤I haven't introduced myself yet. I am the Dragon Emperor Jiuxiao.
你能感受到一股浩瀚的神识波动从眼前的异火中散开，你对他的神识试探宛若牛虻入海一般。¤You can sense a vast ripple of soul sense radiating from the different fire in front of your eyes, your attempt to probe its soul sense is like a gnat trying to dive into the ocean.
小心，对方乃是化神修士，甚至有过之。¤Be careful, the opponent is a deity transformation cultivator, even higher than that.
道友不必对我如此防备，现在的我不过是一缕仅靠着异火苟延残喘的神魂罢了。¤Fellow Daoist, there's no need for you to be so guarded against me. I'm just a stray soul relying on a different fire to barely cling on to life.
这雷电甚是霸道，不过竟有淬体之效。远处那是？¤This thunder is quite overbearing, but surprisingly it has the effect of tempering the body. What's that in the distance?
原来小友身怀我族血脉。现在我龙族是何处境？龙皇是何人？现在是何时？¤So my young friend has the blood of our clan. What is the current situation of my Dragon Clan? Who is the Dragon Emperor? What is the current time?
小友，现在是何时？来跟我说说现在我族近况如何？¤Little friend, what time is it now? Can you update me on the recent situation of our tribe?
按你的说法，我龙族自大战之后一蹶不振，现在族中甚至没有化神强者坐镇？只得龟缩一隅？¤According to what you've said, my Dragon Clan has been declining since the Great War. Now, there are not even any Deity Transformation experts in the clan to lead us. We can only cower in a corner.
唉，我敖铭愧对先祖啊。¤Alas, I, Ao Ming, have let down my ancestors.
幽炎诀？我弟弟已经把这传给你了？那他是不是已经...¤Phantom Inferno Technique? Has my little brother already passed this on to you? Then has he already...
.....嗯¤Hmm.
小友，我有事相求。¤Young friend, I have a request to make.
请讲¤Please speak
放心你既然已经习得幽炎诀，我定会破例将九龙天雷火的火种分你一支。¤Rest assured, since you have already mastered the Phantom Inferno Technique, I will make an exception and give you a portion of the Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire's flames.
我肉身损毁借助异火修炼，神识过于强大为天地法则所不容，贸然离开这九霄雷狱阵必然引下天劫魂飞魄散，还请你去往龙宫内的化龙池寻得龙魂石带我出去。¤My physical body is damaged and I am using different fire for cultivation. My soul sense is too strong to be tolerated by the laws of heaven and earth. If I leave this eternal lightning prison formation recklessly, I will inevitably attract heavenly tribulation and my soul will scatter. Please go to the dragon transformation pond in the dragon palace and find the dragon soul stone to take me out.
龙魂石？您看可是此物？¤Dragon Soul Stone? Do you think this is the item?
正是，这火种小友留下¤Indeed, this small spark was left behind by my young friend.
小友，这九霄雷狱阵的引雷柱都是不可多得的至宝，龙宫沉没在即，你还是尽数带去比较好。¤Young friend, the lightning pillars of the Eternal Lightning Prison Formation are precious treasures that are hard to come by. The Dragon Palace is about to sink, so it would be best if you take them all with you.
说罢空中异火分出一只火苗向你飞来，其余的钻入了你手中的龙魂石。¤After speaking, a different fire in the air split into a flame and flew towards you, while the rest drilled into the Dragon Soul Stone in your hand.
好。¤Okay.
小友还是快去快回为好。¤Dear young friend, it's better to come and go quickly.
火焰升腾间，隐隐间能够见到九条银色火龙，在火焰之内穿梭而行，九条细小的火龙在其中四下穿梭，犹如具备着灵智一般，而且隐隐间，有着许些龙威从中弥漫而出。¤Fire flames rise up, faintly revealing nine slender silver fire dragons weaving in and out of the flames. The nine small fire dragons shuttle around as if they possess intelligence, and there is a hint of dragon power emanating from them.
正阳道长是我派最年轻的长老，资质悟性极高，已将我派{color=#d0380a}化焰术{/color}练得炉火纯青，再加上他的独门功法《熔盾决》，与人对敌时总能立于不败之地。¤Lord Bright Sun is the youngest elder in our sect, with extremely high aptitude and comprehension. He has mastered our sect's {color=#d0380a}Living Flame Art{/color} and with his unique technique, 《Melting Shield Technique》, he always stands undefeated in battles.
你走到火云老祖身前，行拜师之礼。¤You approach Patriarch Flamecloud and perform the Rites of Passage as a sign of becoming his disciple.
{shidi}，我派目前共有三位授业长老，你想先了解哪一位？¤{shidi}, our sect currently has three instructor elders. Which one would you like to learn from first?
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一只木盒，扔给了你。你用神识扫过，盒中是一套飞针法器。¤After speaking, the master took out a wooden box from his storage pouch and threw it to you. Using your soul sense to sweep through it, you see that the box contains a set of flying needle magic tools.
苍坤上人极擅炼器，他主修的《焚心诀》能精确地控制温度极高的真火，可燃尽天下万物，对敌时更能{color=#d0380a}灼伤{/color}对手，威力不俗。¤Venerable Pale Earth is extremely skilled in refining, and his main cultivation technique, the Burning Heart Mantra, can precisely control the extremely high temperature of true fire, burning out all things in the world. When used against enemies, it can also inflict burning injuries, displaying formidable power.
此匣，名为赤离，乃是我年轻时随手炼制的武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This box, named Red From, is a weapon that I casually forged when I was young. Today, I am giving it to you as a gift for our meeting.
{shidi}，我派目前共有3位授业长老，你想先了解哪一位？¤{shidi}, our sect currently has three instructor elders. Which one do you want to learn from first?
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一个匣子，扔给了你。¤Upon finishing his words, the master took a box out of the storage pouch and threw it to you.
哈哈哈，不错，你这{xiaozi}还算是有眼光。¤Hahaha, not bad, you have some good taste, {xiaozi}.
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一柄环状武器，递给了你。¤Upon finishing speaking, the master took out a ring-shaped weapon from the storage pouch and handed it to you.
不错萧儿，辛苦你了。¤Well done, Xiao Er. You've worked hard.
{FirstName}{LastName}，从今日起你就是我派的内门弟子了。¤{FirstName}{LastName}, from today onwards, you are now an inner disciple of our sect.
这把环名为苍炎，乃为师年轻时所用，颇为顺手。今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤The ring is called Cang Yan. It was used by my master when he was young and is quite handy. Today, I am giving it to you as a gift for our first meeting.
是，师尊¤Yes, Master.
你走到正阳道长身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Daoist Zhengyang and perform the Rites of Passage to formally become his disciple.
修仙一途凶险无比，希望你凡事都要步步为营，三思而行。¤Cultivating immortality is an extremely dangerous path, so I hope you will proceed cautiously and think carefully in all matters.
只见他笑着向你点了点头。¤I saw him smiling and nodding at you.
你走到苍坤上人身前，行拜师之礼。¤You approach Venerable Pale Earth and perform the Rites of Passage to become their disciple.
此针，名为火柳，乃是我年轻时所炼制最为顺手的武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This needle, named "Fire Willow", is the most handy weapon I forged in my youth. Today, I will give it to you as a welcoming gift.
是，师尊。¤Yes, master.
火云老祖乃我派大长老，修为已达元婴期。他的独门功法《叠焰决》是门派内数一数二的战斗型功法，对敌时可运用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力提升火系法门威能，大长老便是凭此功法在宁州打下的赫赫威名。¤Patriarch Flamecloud is our sect's grand elder, with a cultivation level that has reached the nascent soul stage. His unique technique, Stacking Flames Decision , is one of the top combat techniques within the sect. When facing enemies, he can utilize the power of the five elements to enhance the potency of his fire-based techniques. It was through this technique that the grand elder earned his renowned reputation in Ningzhou.
按大比的规矩，你可以从自行选择拜入在座的任意一名长老门下继续修行。萧儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤According to the rules of the grand competition, you may choose to apprentice under any elder present to continue your cultivation. Xiao Er, please introduce the situations of the elders to your {shidi}.
萧儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤Xiao'er, please introduce the situation of the elders to your {shidi}.
这里似乎曾经是御剑门的宗门大殿，却也是一路走来损毁最为严重的地方，可以想象当年那场大战的惨烈。¤This seems to have been the great hall of the Imperial Sword Sect's clan, but it's also the most severely damaged place along the way, one can imagine the brutality of that battle years ago.
这里曾是御剑门种植灵药的药园，如今虽然荒废了大半，但仍然可以找到些许存活的灵药。{w}{w=0.5}¤This was once the medicine garden where the Imperial Sword Sect planted spirit medicine. Although it is now mostly deserted, some surviving spirit medicine can still be found.
这里曾是御剑门外门弟子的住所，当年大战后便被洗劫一空，你什么都没有找到。\n¤This was once the residence of outer disciples of Imperial Sword Sect, but it was looted clean after the war and you didn't find anything.
藏剑阁里空荡荡的，除了一些破损的残片以外，你什么都没有找到。¤The Cangjian Pavilion is empty, except for some damaged fragments, you haven't found anything.
哎，又白忙活一场...¤Ah, it was all for nothing again...
这禁制连你都能打破，你以为一千年前的那些人会被它拦住么。只怕是这禁制太弱，他们压根就没把它当回事吧。¤This restriction can be broken even by you. Do you think those people from a thousand years ago would have been stopped by it? I'm afraid that this restriction is too weak and they probably didn't even take it seriously.
不是吧，费那么大劲才破了那层禁制，这藏剑阁里怎么只有这点儿东西啊？¤Seriously? It took so much effort just to break that restrictive barrier, and this is all that's inside the Sword Hiding Pavilion?
你把它收好，说不定日后会有所发现的。¤Keep it safe, it may come in handy in the future.
也不尽然...那片破碎的玉佩虽然看起来普通，但上面雕刻的图案纹样倒是让我有一种莫名熟悉的感觉。¤Not necessarily... Although that broken jade pendant looks normal, the patterns carved on it actually give me a sense of familiarity.
你走近养剑池，只见池中漂浮着一柄魔气四溢的灵剑，数条锁链从池底生出，将它牢牢锁住。¤You approach the Sword Pond and see a spiritual sword floating in the pool, overflowing with magic qi. Several chains emerge from the bottom of the pool and securely lock it in place.
{vpunch=10,0.5}这...这是？¤{vpunch=10,0.5} What... what is this?
筑基期！？？¤Foundation building phase?!
啧啧，我原本还奇怪，那些普通的剑灵怎么会有灵智来攻击我们，原来是它在指挥。¤Hmm, I was wondering how those normal sword spirits could attack us with intelligence, turns out it was controlling them.
这只剑灵可不得了，本身的修为就已经可以和筑基巅峰的人类修士媲美，又已经产生了灵智。恐怕只有纯阳法宝这一级别的仙剑，才能自行孕育出这么强大的剑灵。¤This sword spirit is extraordinary, possessing a cultivation base that rivals the peak of human cultivators in foundation building and is already sentient. Perhaps only a pure yang magic weapon at the level of an immortal sword can produce such a powerful sword spirit.
不过你也不用太担心，捆住它的这条锁链也不是凡品，我看它现在能发挥出来的功力应该还不足两成。¤Don't worry too much though, the chain binding it is not an ordinary object. I think it's only utilizing less than 20% of its full power right now.
老头儿，我只是来这遗迹里勘察一番，这剑灵明显超过了我能处理的范围嘛，既然已经弄清楚缘由了，要不还是先回宗门...¤Old man, I am only here to explore this ruin. This sword spirit is clearly beyond my ability to handle. Since we have already figured out the reason, why don't we go back to the clan for now...
话音未落，你身后的{color=#d0380a}锈渍铁剑{/color}突然强烈地抖动起来，清亮的剑鸣声再度响起。那被锁链捆住的剑灵仿佛受到了呼应，魔气开始翻涌，数道红色的剑气向你袭来...¤As the words fell, the {color=#d0380a}Rusted Iron Sword{/color} behind you suddenly began to shake violently, and the clear sound of the sword echoed once again. The sword spirit, bound by chains, seemed to respond, and magic qi began to surge. Several red sword qi attacked you...
你听到右边的房间传来剑气交错的声音。¤You hear the sound of sword qi intersecting from the room on the right.
这里曾是御剑门炼器的地方，角落里还散落着一些低阶的炼器材料，除此以外再没有什么有价值的东西了。¤This was once the place where the Imperial Sword Sect refined their tools, and in the corner there are still some low-grade refining materials scattered about. Other than that, there is nothing else of value here.
就是这里了。¤Here it is.
魏无极两手结成状若莲瓣的指诀，一道虚晃的灵光闪过，刻有古朴花纹的石壁缓缓自当中分开，露出一条可供一人通过的小径。¤Wei Wuji formed a hand seal resembling a lotus petal, and a fleeting spiritual light flashed. The stone wall with ancient patterns slowly separated from the middle, revealing a narrow path that only one person could pass through.
如果我没记错，秘阁里应当存放着御剑门全部的功法秘籍，以及我修炼的心得笔录。¤If I am not mistaken, the Secret Pavilion should contain all the technique manuals of the Imperial Sword Sect, as well as my cultivation insights.
或许能在我当年的记录中找到一些关于缺失记忆的线索。¤Perhaps some clues about missing memories can be found in my records from that year.
希望如此吧...¤Hope so...
你沿着狭小的甬道前行，也许是与外界隔绝的缘故，陡峭的石阶上并未沾染太多的灰尘。¤You proceed along a narrow corridor, perhaps due to being isolated from the outside world, the steep stone steps have not accumulated too much dust.
当年我在此处建造秘阁本是为了保护门派传承，没想到千年后门派覆灭，而我又以另一种方式故地重游。¤In the past, I built the secret pavilion here to protect the heritage of the sect. Little did I know that the sect would be destroyed a thousand years later, and I would revisit old places in a different way.
这阶阶石梯皆为我亲手削除山石所成，那石壁上的阵法也为我亲手刻画，现在想来初创门派时的景象历历在目，可惜那些雄心壮志早随着光阴的流逝而蹉跎了。¤The stone steps of this staircase were all carved by my own hands, and the array on the stone wall was also drawn by me. Now, I vividly remember the scene when I first founded my sect, but unfortunately, those ambitions have been wasted as time has passed.
众求道者何不皆是如此？如此看来，什么天才英杰，也不过是芸芸众生中的平凡一员罢了。¤Why wouldn't all seekers of the Dao be like this? It seems that even those so-called geniuses and heroes are nothing more than ordinary beings among the multitude.
若无法得道成仙，自然只是沧海一粟。¤If one is unable to become an immortal, they are nothing but a speck in the vast ocean.
世人前仆后继踏上仙路，不正是为了那一丝渺茫的希望吗？¤Isn't it for that faint hope that people keep on stepping onto the Immortal Path one after another?
哈哈，正是如此，没想到我也有被你这{xiaozi}点悟的一天。¤Haha, that's right, I never thought that I would also have a day where I'm enlightened by you, {xiaozi}.
你与魏无极谈笑间，石路已至尽头。¤While chatting with Wei Wuji, the stone path has already reached its end.
错落的书架上整齐地摆放着各种古籍，柔和的灵气火焰摇曳着，投下轻晃的影子。¤On the scattered bookshelves, various ancient books are neatly arranged. The gentle spiritual flame sways and casts flickering shadows.
若没记错，我的笔录存放在右手边第三排书架上，将那本书架顶端最左侧的《灵妖录》向内用力推至全本没入凹槽便可打开暗格。¤If I remember correctly, my notes are stored on the third shelf on the right-hand side. Push the book at the top-left of the shelf, 《Spirit Monster Record》, inwards with force until the entire book is inside the groove to open the hidden compartment.
你按照魏无极所言将那本书推进凹槽，“咔哒”一声，书架侧方的暗格应声而出。¤Following Wei Wuji's instructions, you pushed the book into the groove, and with a "click," a hidden compartment on the side of the bookcase opened.
这怎么可能！¤This is impossible!
你见魏无极如此震惊，便也凑上前去查看暗格中的内容。¤You saw Wei Wuj shocked like this, so you also went up to check the content in the hidden compartment.
只见黑黢黢的木格中空空如也，哪里有什么魏无极所说的心得笔录！¤All I could see inside the dark wooden lattice was emptiness, there was no record of any insights or experience that Wei Wuji had mentioned.
魏老，你不会是记忆错乱了吧...该不会之前这里的东西被你移动过，但你没想起来？¤Wei old, you didn't remember incorrectly, did you... Could it be that you moved things here before, but you didn't remember?
虽然几率很小，但也不排除有这种可能...我们再找找秘阁内有没有其他的线索吧。¤Although it's unlikely, we can't rule out the possibility... Let's search the Secret Pavilion for other clues.
御剑门的秘阁并不算大，你们很快便在一处角落里发现了端倪。¤The secret pavilion of the Imperial Sword Sect is not large, and you quickly discovered clues in a corner.
一块朴素的石碑引起了魏无极的注意，你将目光投过去，发现上面刻着的两列小字：¤A simple stone tablet caught Wei Wuji's attention. As you focus your gaze on it, you notice two rows of small characters engraved on it:
尊师魏无极之墓¤The Tomb of Respected Teacher Wei Wuji
弟子 凌轩¤Disciple Ling Xuan
魏老，看来这秘阁并非没有人来过，还有之前的御剑门弟子为你立了墓碑呢。¤Old Wei, it seems that this secret pavilion has been visited before and there are tombstones of former Imperial Sword Sect disciples dedicated to you.
是轩儿！当年他没死！¤It's Xuan er! He didn't die back then!
这个凌轩...他是何人？¤Who is this Ling Xuan...?
当年创建御剑门之初，我曾收下六名亲传弟子。凌轩是我座下大弟子，天赋最高，当年进入宁州古迹之时，他已有金丹巅峰修为，剑道感悟更是不在我之下。¤When I first founded the Imperial Sword Sect, I took in six direct disciples. Ling Xuan was my eldest disciple, with the highest talent. When he entered the Ning Province ancient ruins, he already had reached the pinnacle of Golden Core cultivation and had a better understanding of the Sword Dao than me.
当年他战至力竭，重伤昏迷...我本来以为他们都已经死了...¤In those years, he fought until he was exhausted, heavily wounded and unconscious...I originally thought they were all dead...
仔细想来，这秘阁也似乎过于干净整洁了，完全不像一千多年没有人来过的样子。¤Upon closer inspection, this Secret Pavilion seems unnaturally clean and tidy, showing no signs of being abandoned for over a millennium.
或许暗格里的笔录也是被这个凌轩拿走的。¤Perhaps the records in the secret chamber were also taken by Ling Xuan.
若是轩儿还活着,他一定能解答我们所有的疑问。只是一千多年过去了，即便轩儿后来突破到了元婴期，恐怕也...¤If Xuan'er were still alive, he would definitely be able to answer all of our questions. However, over a thousand years have passed, even if Xuan'er later broke through to the Nascent Soul stage, I'm afraid...
你也说过他天赋最高，或许他就比你更进了一步，突破化神期了呢。¤You also said that his talent is the highest, maybe he has gone further than you, and had a breakthrough in deity transformation phase.
让我想想...宁州...化神期...剑修...¤Let me see... Ningzhou... Void Transformation stage... Sword cultivator...
武陵城白帝！¤Wuling City, White Emperor!
魏老，你说有没有可能...？¤Old Wei, do you think it's possible...?
哎...¤Ah...
此事我早已想过，只是那白帝楼所用的剑法神通与我御剑门完全不同，不似出于我门下传承。¤I have already considered this matter, but the divine skill and sword technique used by the White Emperor Pavilion are completely different from the Imperial Sword Sect and do not appear to be from our heritage.
没准是那凌轩又有了别的奇遇也未可知。总之秘阁线索已断，去白帝楼问问没准会有新的发现。¤It is uncertain whether Ling Xuan had another wonderful encounter or not. In any case, the clue to the secret pavilion has been broken. Ask around the white emperor pavilion, there may be new discoveries.
这里曾经是御剑门的炼丹房，时隔千年早已破败不堪。地火房损坏的似乎并不严重，但大部分的丹药想必都在当年那场大战后被洗劫一空，你只在房间的角落找到一张破旧的老丹方。¤This was once the alchemy room of the Imperial Sword Sect, but after a thousand years, it is now in ruins. The earth fire room doesn't seem to be severely damaged, but most of the pills must have been looted after the war. You only found an old and tattered recipe in the corner of the room.
这间丹房也许还能继续使用，想在这里尝试炼丹么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Perhaps this dan room can still be used, do you want to try alchemy here? {w}{w=0.5}
要离开御剑门遗迹吗？¤Do you want to leave the Imperial Sword Sect ruins?
此处是一个矿脉，要在此采集吗？¤Is this a vein of ore? Do you want to gather here?
这里曾是御剑门内门弟子的住所，当年大战后便被洗劫一空，你只找到一件破破烂烂的道袍。¤This was once the residence of the inner disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect. After the great war, it was completely plundered, and you only found a tattered Daoist robe.
一道光幕挡住了你的去路。¤A beam of light screen blocked your way.
这有什么可奇怪的，很多远古大能在自己洞府中布下的阵法与禁制都能够自行吸收天地灵气，持续个几十万年也没有问题。¤What's so strange about this? Many ancient experts can set up arrays and restrictions within their own caves that can absorb the spiritual energy of heaven and earth on their own, and can continue for hundreds of thousands of years without any issue.
这道禁制倒也算不得什么了不起的东西，我看这应该只是门派用来{color=#d0380a}考验{/color}年轻弟子所设，没什么攻击性，只要你的法术能够将它短暂击溃，就可以通过了。¤This restriction formation isn't particularly impressive. I think it's just something that the sect set up to test its young disciples, without any striking ability. As long as you can briefly break it with your spells, you can pass it.
这御剑门都荒废了一千多年了，怎么还会有禁制存在？¤The Imperial Sword Sect has been deserted for more than a thousand years, how could there still be restrictions in place?
你走进房间，只见一块掉落在地上的牌匾上，写着“藏经阁”几个大字。这字看似平淡无奇，却透着一种无法说清的玄意，细看之下，竟觉得神识一阵恍惚，这几个字像是活了过来，化作几道人影在你的眼前舞剑。¤You walk into the room and see a plaque that fell on the ground, with the words "Hidden Manual Pavilion" written on it. These words seem plain and unremarkable, yet they exude a mysterious and inexplicable aura. Upon closer inspection, your soul sense suddenly becomes hazy, as if these words have come to life and transformed into several figures twirling swords before your eyes.
从书法中感受到的剑意令你有所顿悟，获得了一条新的{color=#d0380a}思绪{/color}。¤You gained a new insight after feeling the sword intent from calligraphy, obtaining a new {color=#d0380a}train of thought{/color}.
{color=#d0380a}习得《九转游身剑》{/color}。¤Acquired {color=#d0380a}《Nine-Turn Sword》{/color}.
{color=#d0380a}心境+3{/color}。¤{color=#d0380a}Mental state+3{/color}.
广场上游荡着不少的剑灵，看来想从这里过去应该免不了一场恶战。¤There are many sword spirits wandering around the square, it seems that passing through here will inevitably result in a fierce battle.
游荡的剑灵发现了你，向你飞了过来。¤The wandering sword spirit discovered you and flew towards you.
走过入口处的山门，一个破败的剑池出现在你眼前。剑池周围的石雕虽然毁坏了大半，但似乎别有玄机。¤Upon passing through the entrance gate, a dilapidated sword pool appears before your eyes. Although most of the stone carvings around the sword pool are destroyed, there seems to be a hidden mystery within.
没等你细细参悟，你身后的锈渍铁剑竟开始微微颤抖，发出一道清脆的剑鸣之声，似乎在与问剑池呼应。¤Without waiting for you to carefully comprehend, the rusted iron sword behind you unexpectedly starts to tremble faintly, emitting a crisp sound of sword song, as if responding to the pool of asking swords.
{vpunch=10,0.5}锈渍铁剑的剑鸣声似乎惊动了这里的剑灵。\n¤{vpunch=10,0.5} The clang of the rusted iron sword seemed to disturb the sword spirit here.
这里的雕塑虽然被毁坏大半，但仍然能够感受到其中蕴含的剑意。¤Although most of the sculptures here have been destroyed, one can still sense the sword intent within them.
这里是老夫当年所铸的明心问剑池...还记得当年御剑门弟子入门之日，都要先经过这里。¤Here is the Mingxin Ask Sword Pool that I forged back then...I still remember that on the day when Imperial Sword Sect disciples entered the sect, they had to pass through here first.
房间内剑气四溢，只见一名身穿竹山宗道袍的修士正被三把剑灵操控的飞剑围攻，险象环生，眼看就要顶不住了。¤Inside the room, sword qi filled the air. A cultivator dressed in the robes of the Bamboo Mountain Sect was being besieged by three flying swords controlled by sword spirits, facing a life-threatening situation and on the verge of collapse.
房间内剑气四溢，只见一名身穿离火门道袍的修士正被三把剑灵操控的飞剑围攻，险象环生，眼看就要顶不住了。¤The room was filled with sword qi as a cultivator in the robes of the Fire Gate Sect was being attacked by three flying swords controlled by sword spirits, facing imminent danger.
道友莫慌，我来助你。¤Fellow daoist, don't panic, I am here to help you.
你躲在门后没有出声，没撑多久，那人便被利剑刺中要害，倒在了地上。你刚想偷偷溜走，便被剑灵发现，一齐向你攻了过来。¤You hid behind the door without making a sound, but didn't last long before the person was struck by a sword spirit in a vital area and fell to the ground. Just as you were thinking of sneaking away, the sword spirit noticed you and attacked you together.
你可以随意挑战他们，不过就算全赢了也没有什么奖励。¤You can challenge them at your leisure, but even if you win all of them, there are no rewards.
当然，作为《凡人筑基传》...我是说...《觅长生》的主角，在我创造的这个幻境中，你可以自由使用游戏中所有的功法，法术与法宝。¤Of course, as the hero of 《 Mortal Foundation Building Chronicles 》... I mean... 《Seeking Eternal Life 》, in this illusionary realm created by me, you are free to use all the techniques, spells, and artifacts available in the game.
你也可以从我这里买到任何你想使用的法宝，甚至随意更改你的灵根。¤You can purchase any artifact you want from me, and even freely modify your spiritual root.
这...这是哪里？¤What...what is this place?
总之...只有各个位面宇宙中有名有姓的重要角色才会被邀请来到这里。¤In short...only important characters with names and surnames from various dimensional universes will be invited to come here.
别以为自己稳了，能来到这里的可没有弱者~让我看看你有多少潜力吧。¤Don't think you're safe. There are no weaklings here. Let me see how much potential you have.
这里是我创造的一方小世界，你可以称这里为虚无幻境或者...时空枢纽什么的，这不重要。¤This is a small world that I created, you can call it Void Illusion or...Temporal Hub or anything, it doesn't matter.
确定要离开神仙斗法么？¤Do you want to leave the godly battles?
在我失去意识这段时间里没发生什么吧？¤Did nothing happen during the time that I lost consciousness?
算你这{xiaozi}走运，这附近应该没有其他人被传送过来，而且魔物的实力也有限。¤Consider yourself lucky, {xiaozi}. There shouldn't be anyone else teleported nearby, and the strength of the spirit beast is limited.
远方目力所及之处一些魔物漫无目的地游荡着，有几只甚至开始向你的方向行进。¤Far in the distance, some spirit beasts wander aimlessly, and a few of them are even headed in your direction.
醒了，{xiaozi}？第一次进行空间传送这样的反应很正常，一来二回习惯后就不会陷入短暂昏迷了。¤Are you awake, {xiaozi}? It's normal to have such a reaction during your first space teleportation. After getting used to it a few times, you won't pass out temporarily anymore.
听了魏无极的话你看向周围，脚下的地面由于数千年受魔气侵蚀，呈现出一种让人感到不详的灰黑色彩，空气中也弥漫着一股令人作呕的刺鼻气味。¤After hearing Wei Wuji's words, you look around and see the ground beneath your feet, eroded by magic qi over thousands of years, displaying an ominous gray-black color. The air is also filled with a nauseating, pungent scent.
随着大阵之上精芒一闪，这座不知荒废了多久了传送阵竟然重新运转了起来...¤As the brilliance on the grand array flashed, the teleportation array that had been abandoned for who knows how long surprisingly started operating again...
所幸你曾学过一些{color=#d0380a}聚灵阵{/color}之类的基础阵法，竟也被你慢慢摸出一些头绪。¤Thankfully, you had some basic knowledge of {color=#d0380a}gathering spirit array{/color} and similar formations, and slowly managed to figure out some clues.
你将破损的灵石换下，又细细钻研了一整天...¤You removed the damaged spirit stones and carefully studied them for a whole day...
但阵法之道奥秘无穷，你连最基础的{color=#d0380a}聚灵阵{/color}都未曾学会，此时面对破损的残阵更是无从下手。¤But the mysteries of array techniques are endless. You haven't even learned the most basic {color=#d0380a}gathering spirit array{/color}, so you have no idea how to deal with the damaged formation in front of you.
尝试修复传送阵应该需要消耗不少时间与灵石，你决定...？¤Attempting to repair the teleportation array will likely require a significant amount of time and spirit stones. What do you decide to do?
不知是谁曾经在这里布下过一个传送阵，阵法虽已破败不堪，但细细观之，主要便是阵心那几枚灵石已然破裂，若是替换成新的，也许还有修复的可能...¤It is unknown who had previously set up a teleportation array here. Although the array has been extensively damaged, upon closer inspection, the main issue lies in the cracking of the several spirit stones at the heart of the array. If they were to be replaced with new ones, it may still be possible to repair it.
传送阵已经被修复好了，你决定...¤The teleportation array has been repaired, and you decide...
你刚踏入此地，便闻到一股浓烈的腥臭气味，伴随着强烈眩晕感便向你袭来。¤As soon as you step into this place, you can smell a strong and pungent odor, accompanied by a strong feeling of dizziness that rushes towards you.
看来这是一片毒沼，而且毒性之强就连一般的筑基期修士都难以抵挡。你决定...？¤Seems like this is a poisonous swamp, and the toxicity is so strong that even ordinary foundation establishment cultivators can't resist it. What will you decide...?
好在你身怀{color=#d0380a}辟毒珠{/color}这等奇物，寻找沼毒自然影响不到你太多。你运转灵气护住周身，便一口气冲出了这片毒沼。¤Thankfully, with you carrying the {color=#d0380a}Poison Cleansing Pearl{/color}, the search for marsh poison didn't affect you too much. You circulated your spiritual energy to protect yourself and rushed out of the poisonous marsh in one breath.
好在你曾领悟过{color=#d0380a}《青蛇要诀》{/color}，对毒道亦有自己的理解，想要在这种毒沼中保全自己还不是什么难事。你运转灵气护住周身，便一口气冲出了这片毒沼。¤Fortunately, you have previously enlightened yourself with the Azure Snake Sutra and have your own understanding of the way of poison. It's not difficult to protect yourself in this poisonous swamp. You activate your spiritual energy to protect yourself and successfully rush out of this poisonous swamp.
好在你曾领悟过{color=#d0380a}《太阴玄毒功》{/color}，对毒道亦有自己的理解，想要在这种毒沼中保全自己还不是什么难事。你运转灵气护住周身，便一口气冲出了这片毒沼。¤Fortunately, you have previously enlightened yourself with the {color=#d0380a}《Tainting Poison Skill》{/color}, and have your own understanding of poison techniques. It is not difficult for you to protect yourself in this poisonous swamp. You activate your spiritual energy to protect your body and quickly escape from the poisonous swamp.
好在你曾领悟过{color=#d0380a}《五毒蚀心决》{/color}，对毒道亦有自己的理解，想要在这种毒沼中保全自己还不是什么难事。你运转灵气护住周身，便一口气冲出了这片毒沼。¤Fortunately, you have previously enlightened {color=#d0380a}《Five Poisonous Venom Scripture》{/color}, and have your own understanding of poison cultivation. Therefore, it is not difficult for you to protect yourself in this poisonous swamp. You activate your spiritual energy to protect your body and rush out of the swamp in one breath.
你于毒术一道可谓一窍不通，又没有什么辟毒的丹药或者法宝。运转的灵气很快便抵挡不住这沼毒，失去了意识，一头栽进了这毒沼之中...¤You are completely ignorant in the art of poison, and you have no pills or artifacts to counter it. Your spiritual energy quickly succumbs to the swamp poison, causing you to lose consciousness and fall into the poisonous bog...
你服下一颗{color=#d0380a}清蕴丹{/color}，药力很快就生效了。你运转灵气护住周身，便一口气冲出了这片毒沼。¤You take one {color=#d0380a}panacea pill{/color} and its medicinal effects quickly take hold. You activate your spiritual energy to protect your body and easily rush out of this poisonous marsh.
你翻遍了储物袋，也没有找到能够解毒的丹药...¤You searched through the storage pouch but couldn't find any detoxing pills...
眼前的水潭直径不过四五十米，但却深不见底，漆黑的水面下不断泛起刺骨的寒意，令人感到不安。¤The water pond in front of my eyes is only about forty to fifty meters in diameter, but it's bottomless and the black water surface constantly emits a chilling coldness that makes people feel uneasy.
水潭的四周遍布着的都是些杂乱的石堆，但细细观之却能发现，石缝中长着数种颜色各异的奇花灵草，竟都是你以前没有见过的品种...¤The surroundings of the water pool are filled with messy piles of rocks, but upon closer inspection, one can discover various kinds of strange flowers and spiritual plants growing in the cracks of the rocks, each of them with different colors and none of the species you have seen before.
天才地宝的附近往往有强大的妖兽守护，你贸然出手，还没等接近石堆，刚刚平静的水潭便掀起一阵巨浪，一条数十丈长的巨蛇从水潭深处一跃而出，吐着鲜红蛇信向你攻来。¤Near the genius treasure land, there are often powerful spirit beasts guarding. As soon as you make your move and approach the stone pile, the calm water suddenly rises into waves. A giant snake, dozens of zhang long, leaps out from the depths of the water and attacks you with its red tongue.
你将神识展开，蔓延到整个水潭的深处。刺骨的寒意令你的灵魂感到战栗...你只能隐隐约约感觉，有一个庞然大物盘踞于池底，从身形来看，应该是一条巨蟒。¤You expanded your soul sense, spreading it towards the depths of the pool. The bone-chilling cold made your soul tremble... You could only vaguely sense that a giant python was lying at the bottom of the pool, judging by its size.
当你再想进一步观察之时，一只硕大的蛇眼突然睁开，你只感到大脑一阵刺痛，只能连忙收回了神识。¤When you try to observe further, a large snake eye suddenly opens and you feel a pain in your brain, forcing you to quickly retract your soul sense.
刚刚平静的水潭突然就掀起一阵巨浪，一条数十丈长的巨蛇从水潭深处一跃而出...¤Just now, the calm waters suddenly churned up a huge wave. A giant snake, several tens of Zhang in length, leaped out from the depths of the water...
你将神识展开，蔓延到整个水潭之中。刺骨的寒意令你的神识感到战栗，竟无法继续深入...¤You extend your soul sense, spreading it throughout the entire pool. The piercing coldness makes your soul sense tremble and unable to continue diving deeper...
虽然你无法探查到水下有些什么，但显然不是那么好对付的。你决定...¤Although you can't investigate what's underwater, it's clearly not easy to deal with. You decide...
你决定冒险出手，但还没等你接近石碓，刚刚平静的水潭便掀起一阵巨浪，一条数十丈长的巨蛇从水潭深处一跃而出，吐着鲜红蛇信向你攻来。¤You decide to take the risk and make a move, but before you can approach the stone mortar, the previously calm pool suddenly churns up huge waves. A giant snake, tens of feet long, leaps out of the depth of the pool, spits out a crimson snake letter, and attacks you.
奇怪，怎么走路这么吃力？¤Strange, why do I feel so sluggish while walking?
你低头一看，地面已不再是坚实的土地，而是泥泞的沼泽。而这脚下的淤泥也不似寻常，即使运转灵气也难以抽身。¤As you lower your head to take a look, the ground beneath you is no longer solid earth, but a muddy swamp. The mud beneath your feet is also unusual, making it difficult to extract oneself even with the use of spiritual energy.
看来没有一定的{color=#d0380a}速度{/color}是闯不过这片沼泽的...你选择？¤It seems that without a certain {color=#d0380a}speed{/color}, it's impossible to make it through this marshland... What's your decision?
你不愿冒这风险，便及时地抽身离开了。¤You didn't want to take the risk, so you promptly left.
情急之下，你发现右方似乎有一条隐蔽的小路，虽然不知通向何方，但总比困死在这沼泽里强。¤In a moment of desperation, you notice a hidden path to your right. Although you are unsure where it leads, it's better than being trapped in these marshlands.
你想要借助速度一口气冲过沼泽，熟料还没冲出多远就陷入泥水中，动弹不得。¤You want to rely on your speed to rush through the marsh in one breath, but before you can get too far, you get stuck in the mud and can't move.
你只能小心翼翼地开始在沼泽上匍匐前进，在沼泽地中挣扎了整整五天后，你才成功脱身。¤You can only crawl carefully and struggle through the swamp, and after five full days of struggling in the swamp, you finally manage to escape.
你只能小心翼翼地开始在沼泽上匍匐前进，在沼泽地中挣扎了数天后，你身上的天魔令突然开始发烫。¤You must crawl carefully on the swamp and struggle for days after, suddenly the Heavenly Demon Order on your body starts to heat up.
原来是三十天的试炼时间已到，虽然你身处险地，但还是被天魔令成功传送回了外界...¤The thirty-day trial period has ended. Although you were in a dangerous situation, you were successfully teleported back to the outside world by the Heavenly Demon Order.
你全力运转灵气，施展起遁术，有惊无险地通过了这片恐怖的沼泽...¤You fully activate your spiritual energy, utilising the mobility technique, and pass through this terrifying swamp safely with ease...
也不由竹山宗注灵，但这异乎寻常的灵力逆流，我却如此熟悉。¤Also not hindered by the spiritual energy of the Bamboo Mountain Sect, but this unusually turbulent spiritual energy, I am so familiar with it.
莫非是……？¤Could it be...?
倪家家主见多识广，说不定能看出点门道。¤The Ni family patriarch has seen and experienced much, perhaps he can recognize some ways.
不知家主恢复得如何了？¤How is the clan leader's recovery going?
酒过三巡，主客尽欢，不胜酒力的你正飘飘然之时，倪家家主忽然话锋一转。¤After three rounds of drinking, both the host and guests were enjoying themselves. Despite feeling a little intoxicated, the Ni Family Patriarch suddenly changed the subject.
可惜功力太浅，还未能完成蓄势，丹田却已枯竭。下一刻只觉天旋地转，你便不省人事。¤Unfortunately, the cultivation was too shallow to gather momentum, and the dantian was already depleted. The next moment, everything spun and you lost consciousness.
可以答应他。我如今记忆全失，这柄剑是我唯一的线索。¤Yes, I can promise him. I have completely lost my memory now, and this sword is my only clue.
多亏了阁下的灵药，家主现已无碍了。前些日子家主有些好转时曾提醒过老仆，若阁下到访便带您前往白帝楼。¤Thanks to your miraculous medicine, the head of the family is now fully recovered. A few days ago, the head of the family had mentioned to the servant about taking you to the White Emperor Pavilion if you were to visit, and now that invitation still stands.
这倪府，可真不简单。¤Ni's Manor is truly remarkable.
反正来都来了，就去会会那倪家家主吧。他摆这阵仗，恐怕不是款待小辈这么简单。¤Anyway since we're already here, let's go and meet the patriarch of the Ni Family. The way he's set up his defenses, it's probably not as simple as just entertaining us juniors.
阁下可是前来探访家主的？¤Are you here to visit the master of the house?
唔，看来不是离火门所铸，但材质绝非凡品。那么接下来……¤Hmm, it seems like it's not made by the Fire Gate Sect, but the material is extraordinary. Then, what's next...
唔，剑身已经锈蚀不堪，看不出来历。但这还难不倒我。¤Mmm, the sword's body has already become severely corroded and its history is no longer discernible. But that can't stop me.
{xiaozi}，放心吧，以我的神通，他发现不了我。¤{xiaozi}, don't worry, with my divine skill, he won't be able to find me.
那可不是，我还是第一次被这么多人行礼呢，现在走路都是飘的。¤That's not it, it's my first time being greeted by so many people, now even walking feels like floating.
家主还在休息中，请阁下月后再来吧。¤The master of the household is still resting. Please come back in a month.
可我看你却一直背着这柄剑，莫非有什么原因？¤But I see that you have been carrying this sword all along. Is there any reason for that?
呵呵呵，年轻人，快请入座！今日这宴席只为答谢你一人而设。咱们一老一少以话佐酒，不必拘束。¤Hehehe, young one, please take a seat! This feast is only set up to thank you. Let's accompany the wine with our conversation, there's no need to be constrained.
实不相瞒，这柄古剑乃是我机缘巧合所得。至今未能认主。¤To be frank, this ancient sword was obtained by me through a stroke of luck. Until now, I have not been able to find a master for it.
但这份盎然的生机却化不开锈剑的死寂，仿佛绝美的乐曲中吱呀作响的杂音。¤However, this thriving vitality could not dispel the deathly stillness of the rusted sword, like noise interrupting a beautiful melody.
就让我看看，你是怎样的一柄剑吧。¤Let me see what kind of sword you are.
左手捏成剑诀，向你遥遥一指，锈剑竟直直向你破空而来！¤With his left hand forming the sword seal, he pointed at you from afar and a rusty sword broke through the sky towards you!
但凡仙家法器，认主后便能收入体内，避免暴露虚实。¤For any immortal realm magic tool, once acknowledged by its owner, it can be stored inside their body to avoid revealing its true nature.
下意识握住剑柄的瞬间，体内功力便被压榨一空。注入的灵气仿佛天雷勾动地火，与剑内激荡的意志共鸣。脱缰的怒火充斥了你的胸膛，双眼逐渐为血色笼罩。¤As you instinctively grip the sword handle, your internal energy is quickly drained. The injected spiritual energy seems to be aroused by the heavenly lightning and resonates with the will surging within the sword. Unbridled anger fills your chest, and your eyes gradually become shrouded in a blood-red hue.
可是剑身依然古井无波，与激昂的招式格格不入。¤However, the sword remained calm like an ancient well, contrasting with the fierce movements.
赤红的灵气缠绕着倪父的右臂，运剑轨迹古朴沉稳，仿佛将重逾千斤的铁锤使得虎虎生威。¤The crimson spiritual energy is entwined around the right arm of Ni's father, and the path of his sword technique is ancient and steady, as if he is able to wield a heavy iron hammer with great power.
（魏老，怎么办？）¤(Old Wei, what should we do?)
嘿嘿，你要是能认出这些人的实力，恐怕你就得腿软了。¤Hey, if you could recognize the strength of these people, I'm afraid your legs would go weak.
真正的本命法器，便是主人的灵魂映照，自然会对最熟悉的功法产生回应。¤True personal magic tool is the reflection of the owner's soul, naturally responding to the most familiar techniques.
哪怕是寻常刀剑，日积月累，惯用的位置也会磨光。¤Even ordinary swords and knives, through daily use over time, will wear away at their commonly used positions.
哦？这倒是蹊跷。我倪家于用剑之道颇为心得，可否借剑一看？¤Oh? This is strange. My Ni family has considerable experience in the way of the sword. May I borrow a sword to take a look?
剑意忽变，灵动跳脱的剑尖上下纷飞。周围草木随着他周身吞吐的灵气翩翩起舞。¤Sword intent suddenly changed, and the agile sword tip danced up and down. The surrounding vegetation swayed with the spiritual energy circulating around him.
倪宗主缓步来到庭院中央，持剑肃立。¤Lord Ni walked slowly to the center of the courtyard, holding his sword in solemn stance.
还未等你有所反应，迫在眉睫的剑尖却似深陷泥沼，踌躇不前。却听得倪家主闷哼一声，锈剑竟然挣脱了灵气束缚，悬在你的面前。¤Before you could react, the sword's sharp tip was pressing down on you. However, it seemed to become bogged down like it was stuck in mud, hesitating to move forward. Suddenly, you heard a muffled grunt from the head of the Ni family. Astonishingly, the rusty sword broke free from its spiritual bindings and floated in front of you.
（递出锈渍铁剑）¤(Handing over the rusted iron sword)
右手松开剑柄，古剑仅凭一道灵气托举。¤Releasing his right hand from the sword hilt, the ancient sword was lifted solely by a strand of aura.
这...¤This...
还是过段时间再来吧。¤Let's come back in a little while.
你搜索四周，并没有发现成熟的药草。¤You search around and did not find any mature herbs.
此地已没什么成熟的药草，我还是三年后再来吧。¤There are no mature herbs here anymore, I'll come back in three years.
这里面是良药园是只允许内门弟子进入的，我还是不要随便乱走了...¤The Good Medicine Garden inside only allows Inner Disciples to enter, I better not wander around randomly...
走到竹林深处，映入你眼帘的是一汪绿色的水潭。潭面没有一丝涟漪，平静的仿佛一块碧绿色的玉石。¤Walking deep into the bamboo forest, what comes into your sight is a green pool. The surface of the pool has no ripples and is as calm as a piece of jade.
与这洋溢着平和之意的外表相反，潭水散发着砭人肌骨的寒意，你运转灵气尚可抵抗。¤Despite its appearance of peace and tranquility, the water in the pond exudes a bone-chilling coldness, which you can resist using your spiritual energy.
这潭水有些蹊跷，竹山宗此地多有竹阵压制，这寒潭气息怎会如此之重。¤The water in this pool is a bit strange. The Bamboo Mountain Sect has many bamboo formations suppressing this area, so why is the aura of this cold pool so heavy?
你被这充盈着生机的翠色吸引，缓步来到潭水边。¤You are drawn in by the abundant vitality of the emerald green surroundings, and leisurely approach the edge of the pond.
你飞速地采下阴凝草，随着灵药装入玉盒，潭水的寒意减轻了不少。¤You quickly gather Netherborn Grass and, after putting it with the spirit medicine into the jade box, the coldness of the pond water lessens quite a bit.
你咬紧牙关向那里游去，一株通体深紫边缘靛青的灵药在潭底的石缝中舒展叶片。¤You grit your teeth and swim towards it, where a deep purple spirit medicine with indigo edges is spreading its leaves in a crevice at the bottom of the pool.
竟然是阴凝草，你{xiaozi}这下真是走运了！看来正好赶上它步入成熟期，你且快快采摘免得被驻守此地的长老发现！¤Turns out it's Netherborn Grass, {xiaozi}, you're really lucky this time! It seems like you caught it right at its maturity, so hurry up and pick it before the elder who guards this place finds out!
越平静美丽的事物往往越危险，你决定还是远离这里为妙。¤The more peaceful and beautiful things are, the more dangerous they often are. You decide it's better to stay away from here.
随着一丝一缕的寒气纳入气海，你的经脉也得到了锻炼。¤As strands of cold air are taken into your sea of qi, your meridians are also exercised.
你找了一个合适的位置盘腿而坐，打算借助此地的寒气锻炼体魄。¤You sit cross-legged in a suitable position and plan to use the cold energy here to refine your body.
你思索片刻，认为魏无极所言可信度不高。何况你本就不擅水性，何必以身试险。¤After some thought, you find Wei Wuji's words to be unreliable. Besides, you are not skilled in water-related activities, so there's no need to take unnecessary risks.
就在你即将力竭折返时，一丝悚骨的极寒之气从不远处传来。¤Just as you were about to exhaust your strength and turn back, a bone-chilling coldness emanated from nearby.
{xiaozi}，过去看看！¤{xiaozi}, come take a look!
你思索片刻，认为魏无极所言在理，于是运气护体跳入寒潭，奋力向下潜去。¤After pondering for a moment, you believe Wei Wuji's words are reasonable, so you activate your body protection and jump into the icy water, making a concerted effort to dive deeper.
与这洋溢着平和之意的外表相反，潭水散发着砭人肌骨的寒意，让你连灵气的运转都滞塞了许多。¤Contrary to its peaceful appearance, the water in the pond exudes a bone-chilling cold that hinders the flow of even one's spiritual energy.
我看凭你{xiaozi}现在的身体强度，到潭底一探应该不是什么难事。¤Based on your current body strength, {xiaozi}, it shouldn't be difficult for you to explore the bottom of the pool.
要离开方壶山吗？¤Do you want to leave Fang Hu Mountain?
如果想要进入其中，必须得想些办法移开洞口的巨石，又不要弄出太大的动静才行。¤If you want to enter, you must think of a way to move the huge rocks blocking the cave entrance without making too much noise.
似乎有一种可去驱使物体移动的低阶法术能够做到这一点，但你并没有掌握。¤It seems that there is a low-level spell that can be used to move objects, but you haven't mastered it.
似乎有一种能够切割物体的地阶法术能够做到这一点，但你并没有掌握。¤It seems that there is an earthly spell capable of cutting objects that can achieve this, but you have not mastered it.
你捏起法决，试图使用驱物术移动洞口的巨石。也许是你的修为太低，巨石只是微微摇晃，并没有被挪开。¤You form a hand gesture and attempt to use telekinesis to move the giant boulder blocking the cave entrance. Perhaps due to your low cultivation level, the boulder only slightly shakes and remains unmoved.
你捏起法决，巨石略微晃动了几下，便被你轻轻抬起，挪到了一边，露出了背后黑漆漆的洞窟。¤You concentrate your energy and the giant rock moves slightly before being effortlessly lifted and moved to the side. A dark cave is revealed behind it.
你捏起法决，数道气刃划过，巨石瞬间便被切割成了小块，轰然解体，散落一地，露出了背后黑漆漆的洞窟。¤You raise your technique and several air blades flash by. The giant rock is instantly sliced into small pieces, disintegrating with a boom and scattering all over the ground, revealing the dark cave behind.
巨石倒塌的动静惊动了附近巡逻的竹山宗弟子。¤The movement of the collapsed giant rock alarmed the nearby patrolling disciples of Bamboo Mountain Sect.
什么人？¤Who?
{shidi}？你在这里做什么，怎么弄出这么大动静！¤{shidi}? What are you doing here? Why did you make such a big commotion?
你只好将自己方才所为一一道来...¤You should present your previous actions one by one...
原来如此...¤I see...
{shidi}，这方壶山内有我派金丹期长老坐阵，以后万不可如此莽撞。¤{shidi}, there are elders in the golden core stage from our sect sitting in Fang Hu Mountain. We must not act recklessly in the future.
今日之事你就当没发生过，这里交给我来收拾，你若没有别的事便快快离开吧。¤Forget about what happened today, I'll take care of things here. If you don't have any other business, please leave quickly.
师...{shixiong}？发生什么事了么！¤Master... {shixiong}? What happened?
你随便编出一个理由，便将这位师弟给打发走了。¤You casually made up a reason and sent away this junior disciple.
只是我在练习法术，不小心弄出点动静罢了。¤I was just practicing spells and accidentally made some commotion.
你随便编出一个理由，师弟虽然有些不太相信的样子，还是被你给打发走了。¤You made up a random reason and managed to send away your junior, although they seemed a bit skeptical.
刚刚被一条阴鳞蟒给偷袭了，所以弄出些动静。¤Just got sneak attacked by a Yin Scaled Python, causing some commotion.
你凭空召唤出一道火焰照明，便走进了洞窟。¤You conjure up a flame out of nowhere to light the way as you enter the cave.
这里似乎曾经是某位修士修炼用的洞府，虽然已经破败不堪，但依稀能够看到当年所布阵法的痕迹。¤This seems to have been a cave used for cultivation by a cultivator, although it is now in ruins, one can still faintly see the traces of the array that was once deployed. NOTE
地上只有一些散落的灵核与灵石，应该便是当年布阵所用，除此以外便没有其它的东西了。¤On the ground, there are only scattered spirit cores and spirit stones, which should be the array materials used at that time. Other than that, there is no other thing.
眼前似乎是一座早已废弃的洞府，洞窟的入口被坍塌的岩石与交织的藤蔓遮挡地严严实实，看不清里面的情况。¤Before my eyes is what appears to be an abandoned cave, its entrance blocked tightly by collapsed rocks and intertwining vines, obscuring what is inside.
你远远地看到前方似乎有竹山宗的外门弟子在此戒备，你决定...¤You see from afar that there are Outer Disciples of Bamboo Mountain Sect guarding here, so you decide to...
你捏了一个法决，收敛气息，偷偷从阴暗处溜了过去，所幸并没有被发现。¤You formed a seal and restrained your breath, secretly slipping away from the shadows. Thankfully, you were not discovered.
你捏了一个法决，收敛气息，想要从阴暗处溜过去。但没走几步，便感觉一道冰冷的神识扫过...¤You formed a spell, suppressed your aura and tried to sneak away from the shadows. But after a few steps, you felt a cold sensation as someone's soul sense scanned over you.
你知晓前方似乎有竹山宗的外门弟子在此戒备，你决定绕开他们¤You notice that there seems to be outer disciples of the Bamboo Mountain Sect guarding ahead, so you decide to avoid them.
在此地巡逻的竹山宗弟子，对你点头示意。¤The Bamboo Mountain Sect disciples patrolling in this area nod at you in acknowledgement.
再往前便是方壶山矿脉了，但竹山宗亦派遣了不少门内弟子在此巡逻戒备，你决定...¤Further ahead is the Fang Hu Mountain ore vein, but the Bamboo Mountain Sect has also dispatched many inner disciples here to patrol and be on guard. You decide...
竹山宗亦派遣了不少门内弟子在此巡逻戒备，你决定绕过他们。¤The Bamboo Mountain Sect has also dispatched many junior disciples to patrol and guard here, but you have decided to bypass them.
前方的山头似乎是宗门某位长老的洞府，但洞府外设有禁制，使你无法看清里面的情况...¤The mountain ahead seems to be the cave of a clan elder, but there are restrictions outside that prevent you from seeing inside the situation...
还是不要随意打扰前辈闭关了吧...¤It's better not to disturb senior's cultivation casually.
前方的山头似乎是竹山宗某位长老的洞府，但洞府外设有禁制，使你无法看清里面的情况...¤The mountain ahead seems to be the cave of an elder from the Bamboo Mountain Sect, but there are restrictions outside the cave that prevent you from seeing inside the situation.
没等你走上几步，洞府外的阵法突然运转起来，一股巨大的托力凭空出现，将你甩了出去...¤Without waiting for you to take a few steps, the array outside the cave suddenly activated, and a huge force appeared out of nowhere, throwing you out...
你重重地摔在了地上，血量-10¤You fell heavily to the ground, losing 10 points of health.
还是不要打扰化神前辈修炼为好…¤It's better not to disturb the deity transformation senior's cultivation...
还是不要打扰明山道友清修了…¤Better not disturb Fellow Daoist Mingshan's cultivation...
如无必要，还是莫要打扰人家清修为好...¤If it's not necessary, it's better not to disturb someone's peaceful cultivation...
你能感受到，洞府内有一股与你境界相仿的气息。¤You can feel a breath of Qi within the cave that is similar to your own level.
神秘声音：想不到当年的金丹修士，如今也到了这般境界。¤It's unexpected that the Golden Core cultivator of the past has reached this level now.
我便是明山散人，道友此次前来，所为何事？¤I am the Ming Mountain Scatterer. Fellow Daoist, what business brings you here?
哈哈，我也许久未曾论道了，道友有何疑惑，但说无妨！¤Haha, I may not have debated for a long time. If fellow daoists have any doubts, please speak up, it's no big deal!
早就知道阁下大名，因此化神之后特来拜会一番。¤I have long heard of your distinguished name, and thus come to pay my respects after my deity transformation.
他这句话没有丝毫犹豫，你能感受到，他早已料想了这种情况。¤Without any hesitation in his words, you can feel that he has already anticipated this situation.
若威胁到了宗门，乃至整个宁州，我自当出手。¤If the clan is threatened, even the entire Ningzhou, I will take action.
这金丹魔修你自不必理会，但若日后来了元婴，甚至化神魔修，你又当如何？¤The "golden core" cultivator is none of your concern, but how will you deal with a "nascent soul" or even a "deity transformation" cultivator if they come in the future?
像你说的这种小事，宁州每天都有在发生，我等自不可能一一前去处理。¤As you said, these small matters happen every day in Ningzhou. We cannot possibly go and deal with them one by one.
关于魔门之事，你怎么看？¤What is your perspective on the affairs of the Demon Sect?
你看他是魔道，他看你也是魔道，自古正邪之争无非也只是利益之争罢了。¤You see him as demonic cultivator, he sees you as one too. Since ancient times, the struggle between right and wrong is nothing more than a struggle for interests.
今宁州暗流涌动，魔门定然有所图谋。此前天魔道渗透方壶山，不过是小小的序曲罢了。¤Currently, there is a hidden turmoil in Ningzhou, and the demonic sect must have some scheme. The infiltration of the Heavenly Demon Cult in Fang Hu Mountain earlier was just a small prelude.
原来如此。¤So that's how it is.
在我看来，长生应该是追求其他目标的手段，而不是终点。¤In my opinion, Eternal life should be seen as a means to pursue other goals, not as the ultimate end.
枯木最终化作了方壶山上的一棵树，从某种意义上来说也算是“长生”，可这真的是你想要的麽？¤Deadwood ultimately transformed into a tree on Fang Hu Mountain, which could be considered a form of "eternal life" in a way, but is this truly what you desire?
我不认为只有长生才有意义。¤I do not believe that only eternal life has meaning.
长生之道一直以来都是众多修行之人的目标，不知道友又是如何看待？¤The path to eternal life has always been the goal of many cultivators. How do you, fellow daoist, view it?
个人的道法神通不同，机缘不同，由此而领悟的仙术也不尽相同，前人的经验未必就适合后人。¤Personal enlightenment of divine skill and immort. art varies based on individual cultivation and opportunity. Previous experiences may not necessarily apply to future generations.
但若能弄明白仙术之间的巧妙搭配，想必渡劫之时也能多几分把握吧。¤If one could comprehend the clever combination of immortal arts, then it should add some certainty when crossing the tribulation.
我虽准备了这么多年，终究也只能窥得一丝天道罢了，谈不上什么心得。¤Although I have prepared for so many years, in the end, I can only have a glimpse of the heavenly Dao. I can't talk about any insight.
关于渡劫一事，道友已经先我准备了数百年，可有经验心得相授？¤Regarding the tribulation, Fellow Daoist has already been preparing for hundreds of years, do you have any experience to share?
多谢。¤Thank you.
在思绪与欣喜中，你最终还是道别离开了。¤Amidst your thoughts and joy, you finally bid farewell and left.
又进行了一番论道后，你二人各有收获。¤After another round of debate, both of you gained something.
{FirstName}{shidi}？今日来找我何事？¤{FirstName}, what brings you here today, {shidi}?
{FirstName}道友？今日来找我何事？¤{FirstName} fellow daoist? What brings you here today?
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请明山道友届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for the transition to ascension and has specifically asked me to invite Fellow Daoist Mingshan to attend the ceremony.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请明山师兄届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for his transition to ascension and has specifically asked me to invite Senior Brother Mingshan to attend the ceremony.
明山随手将请帖接过，看过之后却陷入了沉思。¤Mingshan casually took the invitation and after reading it, he fell into deep thought.
你将请帖从储物袋中取出，并通过以灵气御物将其递送过去。¤You take the invitation out of the storage pouch and deliver it using spiritual energy control.
麻烦{FirstName}道友回告白帝，待我准备妥当便会前往白帝楼一叙。¤Please inform the White Emperor, fellow daoist {FirstName} will visit White Emperor Pavilion once preparations are ready.
嗯...竟还有此等计划...只是恐怕有些不太好收场...¤Hmm...there's actually such a plan...but I'm afraid it may not end well...
也罢，近年来这些魔门行事愈发猖狂，若这次又让他们得逞，难免助长他们的嚣张气焰。¤Anyway, in recent years, these demonic sects have become increasingly rampant in their actions. If they succeed this time, it will inevitably fuel their arrogance.
麻烦{FirstName}{shidi}回告白帝，待我准备妥当便会前往白帝楼一叙。¤Please inform the White Emperor, {FirstName}{shidi}, that once I am prepared, I will visit the White Emperor Pavilion for a conversation.
多谢明山道友，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you, fellow daoist Mingshan. I'll take my leave now.
多谢明山师兄，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you Senior Brother Mingshan, I will take my leave now.
多谢明山前辈，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you Senior Ming Shan, then I will take my leave now.
麻烦{FirstName}小友回告白帝，待我准备妥当便会前往白帝楼一叙。¤Please inform the White Emperor for me, young friend {FirstName}, that once I am prepared, I will visit the White Emperor Pavilion for a meeting.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请明山前辈届时前往观礼。¤White Emperor is preparing for the transition to ascension and asked me to invite Senior Mingshan to witness it.
{FirstName}小友？今日来找我何事？¤{FirstName} Young Friend? What brings you here today?
这里是竹山宗的药园，要采摘这里的灵药么？{w}{w=0.5}¤This is the medicinal garden of Bamboo Mountain Sect. Do you want to harvest the spiritual medicine here? {w}{w=0.5}
这里是竹山宗的矿脉，要在这里采集材料吗？{w}{w=0.5}¤Is this the ore vein of the Bamboo Mountain Sect? Do you want to gather materials here?
咳咳，还撑得住，师妹...我们快到宗门了吗？¤Cough cough, are you holding up okay, sister... are we almost at the clan's residence?
前方隐隐有说话声传入你的耳朵，你连忙屏气凝神，躲到一旁的草丛。¤A faint sound of conversation could be heard ahead of you. You quickly hold your breath and focus your senses, hiding in the nearby bushes.
师兄，您的伤不要紧吧！¤Senior brother, are your injuries okay?
师兄放心，我们已经到了方壶山，他们不敢追来。¤Senior brother, don't worry, we have already arrived at Fang Hu Mountain and they dare not chase us.
这就好，这次能夺下这件宝贝，也算是不虚此行...你这次回到宗门，可不要...¤Okay, being able to capture this treasure this time makes the trip worthwhile... When you return to the clan this time, don't...
嘘！师兄，别说了，你还是先休息一会儿吧！¤Hush! Senior Brother, don't say anything, you should rest for a while first!
这两人穿的是竹山宗的服饰，也不知遇到了什么事，竟然如此狼狈，我是否应该现身相助？¤These two people are wearing costumes of Bamboo Mountain Sect, and I do not know what has happened to them as they look so disheveled. Should I appear and help them?
这两人看是我竹山宗中人，也不知遇到了什么事，竟然如此狼狈，我是否应该现身相助？¤They seem to be members of my Bamboo Mountain Sect. I'm not sure what happened to them, but they seem so miserable. Should I reveal myself and help them?
谁！？¤Who!?
师兄，师姐，我也是竹山宗内弟子。发生什么事了，你们是被何人所伤？¤Senior Brother, Senior Sister, I am also a disciple of Bamboo Mountain Sect. What happened? Who hurt you?
二位道友，在下不过路过此地。发生什么事了，你们是被何人所伤？¤Fellow daoists, I am simply passing through this place. What happened here? Who injured the two of you?
小心身后！¤Be careful behind you!
正当你觉得奇怪之时，身后剑声已至，你低头一看，一柄利剑已经穿透了你的胸膛，鲜血顺着剑尖往下流淌...¤Just as you start to feel strange, the sound of a sword comes from behind you. You look down and see a sharp sword has already pierced through your chest, blood flowing down from the tip of the sword...
女子突然大叫一声，你吓了一跳，连忙转身戒备，然而眼前却空无一物。¤The woman suddenly let out a loud scream, startling you. You quickly turned around to be on guard, but there was nothing in front of you.
师兄，你不用白费力气了，以你现在的功力，是挣脱不了我这奎木索的。¤Senior brother, you don't need to waste your energy. With your current skill, you won't be able to break free from my Kui Mu Suo.
{vpunch=10,0.5}啊！¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Ah!
师妹...你暗算我...为什么？¤Junior sister...you plotted against me...why?
好，算……算我走眼了，你一个人想独吞宝物？¤Okay, I guess I was wrong. Are you trying to keep the treasure all to yourself?
师兄，看在往日的情份上，我会留你一具全尸的。¤Senior brother, out of loyalty to our past relationship, I will leave you a complete corpse.
师妹，看在往日师兄待你不薄的份上……¤Sister, considering the kindness that Senior Brother has shown you in the past...
啊！¤Oh!
眼前的女子丝毫不为所动，血花飞溅，只见那名竹山宗师兄的胸口已经被利剑穿透，应该是活不成了...¤The woman in front of her was unmoved by it all as blood sprayed, and she saw that the senior brother of Bamboo Mountain Sect had already been pierced through the chest by a sharp sword. He probably couldn't survive...
（也不知是什么法宝这么有吸引力，竟可以令她冒天下之大不韪残害同门师兄...）¤(Not sure what kind of artifact it is that has such a strong appeal, that it could make her commit the heinous act of harming her fellow senior brother…)
你不敢出声，待得女子处理完尸体离开以后，你又躲到了晚上，这才偷偷现身，逃离了此地。¤After the woman finished dealing with the corpse and left, you dared not make a sound. You then waited until nightfall to quietly appear and leave this place.
{xiaozi}，这丫头不似善类，你小心行事。¤{xiaozi}, this girl is not a good person, be cautious with your actions.
你看到对方向你袭来。¤你看到对方向你袭来
你！！¤You!!
此地已没什么成熟的药草，我还是五年后再来吧。¤There are no mature herbs left in this place, I'll come back in five years.
远远望去，已经能够看到竹山宗在方壶山开辟的药田。但竹山宗也在此设立了执事堂，想要偷偷溜过去似乎不太容易。¤From a distance, one could already see the Herbs Field that Bamboo Mountain Sect established on Fang Hu Mountain. However, Bamboo Mountain Sect also established the Deacon's Hall here, so it doesn't seem easy to sneak past.
嗯？有人闯入？¤Huh? Someone broke in?
道友，请留步。¤Fellow Daoist, please stay for a moment.
快，有人闯入！¤Hurry, someone has intruded!
方壶山临近竹山宗，我还是不要多做逗留为好。¤Fang Hu Mountain is close to Bamboo Mountain Sect, it's probably best not to stay here for too long.
是否要前往方壶山执事堂？¤Do you want to go to Fang Hu Mountain Deacon Hall?
眼前剩下的唯有一块灵力消散的石碑。¤The only thing left in front of my eyes is a stone tablet with dispersed spiritual energy.
眼前的阵法已然荒废，唯有一颗石头浮于空中。¤The array in front of me has been abandoned, only a stone floating in the air remains.
这就是龙魂石了吧，这阵眼的龙须藤、龙血草也不能浪费了。¤This is the Dragon Soul Stone, right? We can't let the Dragon's Whiskers Vine and Dragon Blood Grass in this formation go to waste.
此处的定海碑已被你取走。¤The sea setting tablet here has been taken by you.
眼前是一块完好的定海碑。¤Before my eyes is a well-preserved sea-setting tablet.
白帝楼来人？¤Is there anyone at White Emperor Pavilion?
没想到白帝楼所托之人，居然还是我门中人。¤I did not expect that the person entrusted by the White Emperor Pavilion would actually be one of our own people.
你将东西给他。他接过储物袋神识一扫。¤You gave him the things. He took the storage pouch and scanned it with his soul sense.
嗯，没有问题，这是火麟玉。¤Okay, no problem, this is fire-lynx jade.
告辞。¤Farewell.
小子，把东西留下。¤Kid, leave the things behind.
什么东西，你是谁？（果然有问题，我这还没出沃焦山，对方就来了？）¤What is it? Who are you? (There's already an issue, I haven't even reached Inferno Mountain, and someone is already approaching me?)
不要装傻，火麟玉留下！！¤Don't play dumb, leave behind the fire-lynx jade !!
前辈，此人乃是魔教妖人，请您助晚辈一臂之力。¤Senior, this person is a demon from the demonic sect. Please lend me a hand.
嗯？有埋伏！！？？¤Huh? Ambush!?
{xiaozi}，你敢唬我！！！拿命来！¤{xiaozi}, how dare you bluff me!!! Come and risk your life!
魔教妖人拿命来！¤Evil cult demon, come and give your life!
离火门亦派遣了不少门内弟子在此巡逻戒备，你决定绕过他们。¤The Fire Gate Sect has also dispatched many disciples to patrol and guard this area, but you decide to bypass them.
再往前便是沃焦山火山口了，但离火门亦派遣了不少门内弟子在此巡逻戒备，你决定...¤Further ahead is the volcanic crater of Inferno Mountain, but the Fire Gate Sect has also dispatched many disciples to patrol and be on guard here. You decide...
在此地巡逻的离火门弟子，对你点头示意。¤The Fire Gate Disciple patrolling in this area nods in acknowledgment to you.
这里就是火铜矿脉了，李道友动作快些免得被发现！¤This is the fire copper vein, fellow daoist Li, move quickly to avoid being detected!
李相书从袖内掏出一块泛着寒气的白玉，灼热的气浪在白玉四周迅速凝结而又被冻成细小的冰晶，你不由啧啧称奇。¤Li Xiangshu took out a white jade emitting a cold aura from his sleeve. The scorching heat waves around the jade quickly solidified into small ice crystals, which made you amazed.
他举着玉小心翼翼靠近铜矿的每个角落，谨慎地确认有无异样。¤He carefully held up the jade and approached every corner of the copper mine, carefully confirming whether there was anything unusual.
“这么长时间都没结果，我看《本草纲目》记载的八成不会错。”¤For such a long time without results, I think the Eight Guidelines in the 《Compendium of Materia Medica》 are most likely correct.
道友，时候不早了，你我二人还是尽早离开吧！¤Fellow daoist, it's getting late. Let's leave as soon as possible!
看来这宁州香薷确实灭绝了...唉，可怜我师妹的性命......¤It seems that the fragrant mint in Ningzhou has truly gone extinct... Alas, poor fate for my sister...
你走上前去，稍作用力地拍了下李相书的肩膀。¤You walk forward and gently pat Li Xiangshu's shoulder.
哎呦！！！¤Ouch!!!
他被吓了一跳，手中的寒玉一个不稳滚落地面，落进矿丛中不见踪影。¤He was startled and the cold jade in his hand slipped and fell on the ground, disappearing into the mine.
这我可不是故意的，只是想提醒你快些离开。¤This wasn't intentional on my part, I just wanted to remind you to leave quickly.
无碍，我们还是......¤No problem, let's continue...
李相书的话戛然截止，瞪大眼睛惊异地看向你的身后。¤Li Xiangshu stopped speaking abruptly, and widened their eyes in surprise as they looked behind you.
怎么了......？¤What's wrong...?
两位仙长缘何打扰小女静修？¤Why are two Immortal Elders disturbing my quiet cultivation?
你循声望去，一紫衣女子脸似桃花放蕊，身如弱柳迎风。翩翩纱衣无风自摆，纤纤玉指呈兰花状轻捏着方\r才不知掉落何处的寒玉，好一副娉婷妩媚我见犹怜的姿态。¤When you followed the sound of the voice, you saw a woman in purple attire with a face like peach blossoms and a figure as delicate as a willow in the wind. She gracefully swayed in her gauzy clothes without any breeze, delicately pinching the cold jade in the shape of an orchid that had fallen from somewhere unknown. It was truly a charming and beguiling sight that would make anyone reluctant to look away.
宁宁宁......宁州香薷！宁州香薷化形了？？？¤Ning Ning Ning... Ningzhou fragrant mint! Has Ningzhou fragrant mint transformed?
说来话长，在下师妹诡毒侵体，实需宁州香薷入药。万般无奈之下叨扰姑娘修行，望姑娘千万海涵。¤To make a long story short, my younger martial sister has been poisoned and we urgently need to use Xiangru from Ningzhou. We have no other options but to request the young lady's aid in obtaining it. We ask for your understanding and assistance.
仙长若不介意，可唤小女宁紫馨，宁州香薷正是小女本源。不知二位寻求此草所为何事？¤If the immortal is not opposed, you may call upon me, Ning Zixin. The fragrant lavender of Ningzhou is my true essence. May I ask why the two of you seek this herb?
女子闻言娇柔神色中闪过一丝精芒，但仍粉面含春地笑道。¤Upon hearing the words, a hint of shrewdness flashed through the woman's tender expression, but she still smiled coyly with a face full of youthful charm.
仙长有如此情谊，小女欣羡不已。草药易得，有情郎难求。你不妨靠近些，小女这便分些花叶予仙长。¤The immortal master has such a great friendship, and I am envious. Herbs are easy to obtain, but it is difficult to find a lover with feelings. You might as well come closer, and I will give some flowers and leaves to the immortal master.
多谢姑娘！¤Thank you, girl!
李相书正将上前，你忽的瞥见宁紫馨面含嗔意，显得一张脸愈发阴狠凶戾。再看去时她神色如常，依旧唇边带笑。¤Li Xiangshu was about to approach when suddenly you caught a glimpse of Ning Zixin's angry expression, her face becoming increasingly sinister and fierce. However, when you looked again, she appeared calm and still had a smile on her lips.
一道精纯的火系灵气在宁紫馨掌中凝聚，看起来不像是凝聚本体，倒像是......¤A pure fire elemental aura condensed in Ning Zixin's palm, it didn't seem like a physical entity, but more like...
小心！！！¤Be careful!!!
待你意识到情况不对之际为时已晚，宁紫馨的法术重重打在李相书身上，将他击飞出去。¤When you realized that something was wrong, it was already too late. Ning Zixin's spells heavily hit Li Xiangshu, sending him flying out.
你飞速上前查看李相书的伤势，好在他也有所提防及时运起护体功法，才幸免于难。¤You quickly rushed to check Li Xiang Shu's injuries. Fortunately, he was prepared and activated his protective technique in time, which saved him from danger.
你隐隐发觉宁紫馨的恶意，以迅雷之势将李相书拉至身后，一颗巨大的火球与他擦身而过，将他的袖子烧去大半。¤You faintly sense the malice of Ning Zixin, and with lightning speed, pull Li Xiangshu behind you. A huge fireball narrowly misses him, burning away most of his sleeve.
明面示好背后捅刀！不过是求取几叶草药而已，夺人性命未免也太过心狠手辣！¤Showing kindness on the surface but stabbing in the back! It's just for the sake of obtaining a few herbs, to take someone's life is too cruel and ruthless!
管你劳什子歹毒心肠，我偏要杀又如何？¤No matter how evil your heart may be, I will still kill you. So what?
莫说几片，一片、半片我也不会给！就算修为尽散灰飞烟灭，你们人修也别想从我这带走一枝一叶！¤I won't give even a single piece, let alone a few! Even if my cultivation is reduced to ashes and smoke, you human cultivators can't take a single leaf or twig away from me!
伤的就是你们这些道貌岸然的人修！不仅要伤，我还要杀呢！¤It's you all righteous cultivators who get hurt! Not only do I want to hurt you, I want to kill you!
我看她倒不像苦大仇深，根本是穷凶恶极！道友何必再与她浪费口舌，纳命来！¤I don't think she has any deep hatred towards us. She's just a wicked person who's desperate. Fellow Daoist, there's no need to argue with her. Let's just take her life!
“她对人修貌似积怨颇深...到底是怎么一回事？”¤Her attitude towards people seems to hold deep resentment towards their appearance... What exactly is going on?
哼！五百年前灭族之仇镌骨铭心，我如何不苦大！如何不仇深！¤Hmph! The hatred of my clan being annihilated 500 years ago is inscribed in my bones. How can I not suffer greatly and hold deep grudges!
凡是人族我皆不放过！看招！¤I spare no one from the human race! Watch my moves!
人修果然狡诈，我且问你，倘若天地间只剩你一人，那也称得上人族尚存吗？¤Human cultivators are indeed cunning. Let me ask you, if you were the only one left in this world, would you still consider yourself part of the human race?
投机取巧！贫嘴滑舌！话不投机半句多，不如拔剑！¤Taking advantage of a situation! Being a smooth talker! When words don't work, it's better to draw the sword!
你倒是能言善辩，可惜再伶俐也活不过今日！¤Unfortunately, you are quite eloquent, but even if you were more clever, you wouldn't survive today!
姑娘此言差矣，只剩我一个，那我便是希望，如若连我也不剩才是最坏的情况。¤Girl, your words are incorrect. There's only me left. So, I am still hope. If even I am gone, that would be the worst scenario.
听说几日前执事堂打死了个妄图用寒玉破坏火铜矿脉的阴险之徒，真是为人不齿。¤听说几日前执事堂打死了个妄图用寒玉破坏火铜矿脉的阴险之徒，真是为人不齿。I heard that a few days ago, the deacon's hall killed a despicable person who attempted to use cold jade to destroy the fire copper vein. It is truly shameful.
据我一师弟言那厮不但不伏诛，还口口声声否认，说自己来找什么{color=#d0380a}宁州香薷{/color}。可笑，沃焦山哪里有这种草药！¤According to my junior brother, that person not only refused to be executed, but also denied everything and claimed that he came to look for some Ningzhou herbs. Ridiculous, as there are no such herbs in Inferno Mountain!
像是感应到了什么，你怀中的玉简突然闪烁起来。¤As if sensing something, the jade scroll in your embrace suddenly shimmered.
但此处属离火门管辖，必须处处小心提防被发现才行。¤But this area falls under the jurisdiction of the Fire Gate Sect, so we must be careful everywhere to avoid being discovered.
一条岔路出现在你面前，正当你陷入两难时玉简再度亮起。上面的文字渐渐隐去，浮现出新的提示。¤A fork in the road appears before you, just as you were caught in a difficult situation, the jade slip lights up again. The words on it gradually disappear, revealing a new hint.
“{color=#d0380a}燕子空中上下飞{/color}”......莫非是在指引我方向吗？\n¤{color=#d0380a}Swallows flying up and down in the sky{/color}... Could it be directing me towards a certain direction?
原来如此！火山...沃焦山就是座火山啊！看来这里一定有什么不为人知的秘密。¤That explains it! "Volcanic Mountain"... So, Inferno Mountain is a volcanic mountain! It seems there must be some unknown secret here.
要在这里采集材料吗？{w}{w=0.5}¤Do you want to gather materials here? {w}{w=0.5}
要离开沃焦山吗？¤Do you want to leave Inferno Mountain?
你感受到玉简的震动，将它掏了出来。似是受此地热浪的影响，那玉简竟化成一道白烟直接消散了，你不由得大吃一惊。¤You feel the jade slip tremble and take it out. As if affected by the heat waves of this place, the jade slip unexpectedly turned into white smoke and dissipated directly, leaving you shocked.
快躲起来，这东西应该是什么信号，有人来了！¤Quickly hide, this thing should be a signal, someone is coming!
听了魏无极的话你来不及多想，一个侧身钻进成堆的山石里。¤Upon hearing Wei Wuji's words, you didn't have time to dwell on them, and quickly darted into the piles of rocks.
奇怪，明明感应到了玉简的气息，那小子跑哪去了？¤Strange, even though I sensed the aura of the jade slip, where did that kid run off to?
说完这句话，突然出现的黑袍男子又消失在你的视线里，大概是离开了。¤After saying these words, the suddenly appeared man in black robes disappeared from your sight. He probably left.
我就说怎么没看到墨居仁那小子，原来玉简在你这厮手上。既然如此也别怪我心狠手辣，怨只怨你自己好奇心作祟！¤I was wondering why I couldn't see that kid Mo Juren, turns out the jade slip is in your hands. Since that's the case, don't blame me for being ruthless. It's your own curiosity that got the better of you!
此事有蹊跷，这黑袍人看起来并非离火门所属。当下也不知他是否真正离去，贸然行动恐怕不妥。¤There is something suspicious about this. This person in black robes doesn't seem to be from the Fire Gate Sect. We also don't know for sure if he has actually left. It's probably not safe to act recklessly.
放心，我可不会让你送死，到时候会{color=#d0380a}有人{/color}助你的。¤Don't worry, I won't let you die. There will be {color=#d0380a}someone{/color} to help you when the time comes.
老头，你能感应到刚才那黑袍人的踪迹吗？¤Old man, can you sense the whereabouts of the person in black we just encountered?
{color=#d0380a}墨居仁{/color}那厮到底跑到哪里去了，莫不是在耍我？待我感应一下玉简位置！¤{color=#d0380a}Where did Mo Juren go? Is he playing tricks on me? Let me sense the location of the jade slip!{/color}
他藏匿功法用得极为精妙，我也难以确定，你不若再等上一等。¤He conceals his technique with great skill. I'm also unable to determine it. You might as well wait a little longer.
不好！玉简早烟消云散了，他这一施术我必定遭殃！¤Not good! The jade slip's early morning mist has already dissipated. If he casts this spell, I'll definitely suffer!
千钧一发之际，一位身着离火门服饰的修士匆忙赶了过来。¤At the critical moment, a cultivator wearing the costume of the Fire Gate Sect hurriedly rushed over.
此事有蹊跷，这黑袍人看起来并非本门所属。当下也不知他是否真正离去，贸然行动恐怕不妥。¤There's something suspicious about this. This person in the black robe does not seem to belong to our faction. We don't know for sure if he has truly left, so acting recklessly might not be wise.
原来你在这，消息我打探清楚了，这就是送往{color=#d0380a}灵庙{/color}的物资清单。¤So, it turns out you're here. I've gathered all the information and this is the list of supplies being sent to the {color=#d0380a}Spirit Temple{/color}.
哦，果然不出{color=#d0380a}教主{/color}所料，{color=#d0380a}老妖怪{/color}要飞升了。¤Oh, as expected by the {color=#d0380a}sect leader{/color}, the {color=#d0380a}old demon{/color} is going to ascend.
延寿的丹药呢？快给我！从此我们再无关系！¤Where are the pills for prolonging life? Give them to me quickly! From now on we have nothing to do with each other!
他就是墨居仁？难不成这离火门弟子是与外教勾结构陷自己的宗门？¤Is he Mo Juren? Could it be that this Fire Gate Disciple colluded with an outsider to harm their own clan?
墨居仁？本门弟子竟有人与外人勾结？¤Mo Juren? One of our sect disciples has actually colluded with outsiders?
哼，你是在命令我？¤Hmph, are you ordering me?
你们答应帮我补齐修习魔焰决所造成的亏空的，难道你们要反悔？¤Did you promise to help me make up for the deficit caused by practicing the Magic Flame Technique? Are you going back on your word?
这是不假，但你不会真的天真到以为弄个清单就能换取这么庞大的资源吧。¤This is true, but you're not naive enough to think you can exchange such a massive resource just by making a list, are you?
你们说过，只要一个清单足矣！我是不会再听你摆布，做出违背宗门之事的！¤You said that just one list is enough! I will not let you manipulate me anymore and do anything against the clan!
魔焰决......坊市传言这功法修炼起来自损寿元，竟然是真的。¤The demonic flame technique... rumors in the marketplace say that this cultivation technique actually damages one's lifespan, and it appears to be true.
魔焰决......这本是魔焰真君创此功法，为解决自身资质较低无法修炼的问题，但终不是每个人都如他老人家一般，能够修为精进突破境界弥补寿元啊。¤The Demon Flame Technique...This technique was created by the Zhenjun of the Demon Flame. It was intended to solve the problem of low aptitude that prevented individuals from cultivating, but not everyone is like him who could improve their cultivation and breakthrough to extend their lifespan.
你听到兴头正欲凑近些，不料脚下碎石因动作发出轻微声响，一下惊动了正在谈话的二人。¤You were getting excited and wanted to approach closer, but unfortunately the sound of the gravel under your feet made a slight noise, which startled the two people who were talking.
到此为止吧，看来有杂鱼混进来了。我不便出手，你去料理了他。¤That's enough for now, it seems that there are some small fish mixed in. I cannot take action, you go handle them.
那你们答应我的......¤The promise that you all made to me...
下个月我自会联络你。¤I will contact you next month.
说话算话！¤Keep your word!
言罢，墨居仁径直向你走来。¤Upon finishing his words, Mo Juren approached you directly.
你看准时机，趁着神秘人消失而墨居仁没靠近的一瞬提气轻身，拔腿便跑。所幸平日没少苦修身法，总算逃出了墨居仁的追踪。¤You timed it well and took advantage of the moment when the mysterious person disappeared and Mo Juren did not approach. You used qing shen  to jump up and run away. Luckily, you have practiced this technique a lot and managed to escape Mo Juren's pursuit.
此人似乎是绝焰堂的执事之一，看来此事另有隐情。¤This person seems to be one of the stewards of the Jueyan Hall. It seems that there is another hidden situation to this matter.
呵呵，现在又想做好人了？¤Hehe, now you want to be a good person again?
可惜你没机会了，算算时间也差不多了，你内视一番。¤Unfortunately, you don't have a chance anymore. It's almost time, take a moment to reflect.
你们对我做了什么？嗯？这是！！？？蛊？¤What have you done to me? Hmm? This is!!? Gu?
他好像很痛苦的样子。¤He seems to be in a lot of pain.
呼呼......你们是{color=#d0380a}古神教{/color}的人？这是{color=#d0380a}魔神蛊{/color}？¤Hoo... Are you guys from the {color=#d0380a}Ancient God Sect{/color}? Is this the {color=#d0380a}Devil God Gu{/color}?
哈哈哈！中了我教神蛊，你还不乖乖听话！！¤Hahaha! You have fallen for my divine Gu, now obediently listen to me!!
哦？你个小小的执事倒是有点见识。我承诺你的句句属实，我教《古神经》配合神蛊，区区魔焰决的弊端又有何妨？¤Oh? You're a small but knowledgeable steward. I promise you that every one of your words is true. I'll teach you the exact usage of the 《ancient nerve》 combined with divine insects, and there's no need to worry about any weaknesses in the demon flame technique.
我所要的解决办法，可不是变成你们古神教这些不人不魔的疯子！！！¤The solution I seek is not to become one of you lunatic creatures from the ancient god sect!
麒麟火玉乃是门中重要物资，每次运输至少有金丹期高手坐镇，我怎么可能动手脚？¤Lin Flame and Fire Jade are crucial materials in our sect. Each shipment is escorted by at least one expert at the Golden Core level. How could I possibly tamper with them?
呵呵呵，你痛苦的样子真的很不错！所以这次的无礼我原谅你了。¤Hehehe, your look of pain is really good! So I forgive you for your impoliteness this time.
只要你帮我办事，此间事了，我便收你为徒入教。若是修炼有成，区区寿元亏空又算得了什么？¤If you help me with this matter, and we see it through, I will take you as my disciple and teach you. What does it matter if your lifespan becomes deficient when your cultivation has succeeded?
再者，现在后悔已经迟了。难道你最近没有感受到肉身正在被神蛊改变吗？事情办好了，我就传你《古神经》第一层。¤Furthermore, it's already too late to regret now. Haven't you felt that your physical body is being changed by the divine insects recently? Once the matter is settled, I'll teach you the first level of 《Ancient Nerve》.
{vpunch=10,0.5}......呃啊！！！¤{vpunch=10,0.5}......Ugh Ah!!!
呼......你...你还要需要我做什么？¤Huh...do you need me to do anything else?
离火门灵庙的{color=#d0380a}麒麟火玉{/color}，要经由你们绝焰堂之手运往各处，到时候你将我上次给的{color=#d0380a}东西{/color}找机会淋在上面。¤The Fire Gate Sect's {color=#d0380a}Lin Flame Fire Jade{/color} must be transported to various places by your hands from the Ling Temple. When the time comes, you must find an opportunity to pour the {color=#d0380a}thing{/color} I gave you last time onto it.
怪不得此人对我离火门知之甚详，原来内鬼不止一人。¤No wonder this person knows so much about Fire Gate Sect, turns out there's more than one insider.
对了，帮我通过你们绝焰堂查查这两个人，在宁州的踪迹？¤By the way, help me check the whereabouts of these two people in Ningzhou through your Jueyan Hall.
他们是？¤They are?
不该问的别问。¤Don't ask what shouldn't be asked.
糟了！¤Oops!
哦？是同门{shidi}？离火门可没有叫人听墙角的功法，{shidi}若执意修炼也只好留下性命了！¤Oh? A fellow {shidi}? The Fire Gate Sect doesn't teach eavesdropping techniques, so if you insist on cultivating it, {shidi} will have to leave with your life!
（好像得知了不得了的消息，现在该......）¤It seems like they have received some major news, now they have to...
此事牵扯甚广，我还是不要乱来了。¤This matter involves a wide range of issues, so I better not get involved.
该交代的都交代完了，玉简拿好，下个月我还会联络你。¤Everything that needed to be explained has been explained. Take the jade slip and next month I will contact you again.
好机会！趁其不意抢占先机，将他捉拿后禀告长老！¤Good opportunity! Take advantage of their unpreparedness and seize the initiative, capture them and report to the elders!
黑袍男子身形逐渐隐去，只留下墨居仁一人站在原地。¤The figure in the black robe gradually disappeared, leaving only Mo Juren standing in place.
魔焰决......这功法以燃烧寿元为代价，提高修炼速度。我也得早做打算了。¤The Demon Flame Technique... This technique increases cultivation speed at the cost of burning one's lifespan. I must prepare for it early.
{shidi}，我也是迫不得已。¤{shidi}, I had no choice but to do it.
何人鬼鬼祟祟，还不速度现行！¤Whoever is being sneaky and suspicious, come out now and surrender!
炸雷似的声音在你身边响起，你被吓了一跳，顿时愣在原地不敢吭声。回过神来，一位身着离火道袍的金丹修士面有怒色地站在你面前。¤Explosive sounds like thunder burst beside you, startling you into silence. When you come to your senses, a Golden Core cultivator wearing a Heavenly Fire robe stands in front of you with an angry expression.
小辈出于好奇深入至此，望前辈宽容，日后定不再犯！¤The junior came here out of curiosity and hopes for the senior's forgiveness. I promise not to make the same mistake again in the future!
罢了，此次便饶你一命，可记住你方才的誓言。¤Fine, I will spare your life this time. But remember your earlier oath.
你这老头啰哩吧嗦地使人厌烦，哪来那么多话，要打就打！¤You old man, your long-windedness is irritating. If you want to fight, then fight!
我还是不要多做逗留了。¤I'd better not linger here for too long.
是否要前往沃焦山执事堂？¤Do you want to travel to the Deacon Hall of Inferno Mountain?
要在这里采集材料吗？¤Do you want to gather materials here?
离火门亦派遣了不少门内弟子在此巡逻戒备，你决定...¤The Fire Gate Sect has also dispatched many inner disciples to patrol and be on guard here, you decide...
你忍着硫磺刺鼻的气味登上山顶，脚下不远处的环形坑洞中赤红色岩浆上下翻腾。¤You endure the pungent smell of sulfur as you reach the mountaintop. Just a short distance away from your feet, the magma inside the circular pit churns and boils in a deep shade of red.
唰啦——¤Shua la
几颗石子因为你的动作滚向火山口，还没接触到岩浆就化为飞灰不见了。¤A few small stones rolled towards the mouth of the volcano due to your movement. They turned into fine ashes before even touching the magma.
怎么样，敢跳吗？¤How about it, dare to jump?
什么？¤What?
跳进岩浆里？你疯了还是我疯了？老头，我扪心自问没做过什么对不起你的事吧？¤Jumping into the magma? Are you crazy or am I crazy? Old man, I honestly haven't done anything to wrong you, have I?
害死你对我有什么好处？这岩浆下面似乎有着什么，之后弄个{color=#d0380a}辟火的法宝{/color}下去探查一番。¤What benefit do you have in trying to harm me? There seems to be something beneath this magma, so let's use an {color=#d0380a}artifact that can cleanse fire{/color} to investigate further.
小子，没有辟火宝物，你疯啦！！！？？？¤Kid, without a fire cleansing treasure, are you crazy!???
你把心一横，闭上眼睛纵身一跃。¤With determination, you close your eyes and jump forward.
剧烈而炽热的风从耳旁刮过，一阵失重感过后外界喧嚣的声响被隔绝开去。¤The violently hot wind blew past my ears, and after a momentary feeling of weightlessness, the outside noise was isolated.
小子，把眼睛睁开吧。¤Kid, open your eyes.
因为麒麟玉的功效你没有感到灼热，像是在海水中遨游一样，但围绕着你的却是绚烂的红色。¤Due to the effectiveness of kirin jade, you do not feel a burning sensation, as if you are swimming in the sea, but the surroundings around you are dazzling in red.
你尝试着舒展身体，却感到明显的粘滞感。看来在岩浆里自由行动并没有想象的那么轻松，你只好运起功法\r\n向前游去。¤You try to stretch your body, but feel a clear stickiness. It seems that moving freely in the magma is not as easy as you thought, so you have to use your techniques to swim forward.
就在下方！过去看看！¤It's right below! Go take a look!
岩浆滞着的感觉让你非常不适，只好加快速度朝着魏无极指示的方向前进以减轻这种煎熬。¤The feeling of magma stagnation makes you very uncomfortable, so you have to speed up and go in the direction Wei Wuji indicated to alleviate this suffering.
待光消散而去，一方小小的朴素石牌落入你手心。¤As the light dissipates, a small and simple stone tablet falls into your palm.
不知向下深入了多少米，你的视线隐约捕捉到一个金色光团。气凝于章，你轻轻一吸，将那光团攫取过来。¤Unclear how deep you have descended, your vision vaguely catches a golden light sphere. Collecting the energy into a chapter, you gently inhale and capture the light sphere.
你就是让我来岩浆下面捞这个？¤Did you really make me dive under the lava to retrieve this?
失误，失误。方才被这玩意的气息干扰了判断，你这回朝着南方上去一定不会错。¤Mistake, mistake. Earlier, my judgment was disrupted by the aura of this thing. This time, heading towards the south, there won't be any mistakes.
害死你对我有什么好处？这岩浆下面似乎有着什么，你对火之道的领悟达到了{color=#d0380a}融会贯通{/color}即使没有辟火法宝也能下去探查一番。¤What benefit do you have in killing me? Under this magma, there seems to be something. Your understanding of the Fire Dao has reached a point of {color=#d0380a}enlightenment{/color}, even if you don't have the Fire Cleanse artifact, you can still explore below.
老夫这次肯定没搞错。¤I definitely didn't make a mistake this time.
你整理了一下情绪，一边向着新的方向进发一边阅读起石牌上的文字。¤You sorted out your emotions, and while moving towards a new direction, you read the words on the stone tablet.
不如这样，{xiaozi}。你再往我说的方向找找，反正我们也都是要上去的，然后路上一齐看看这块石牌写了什么。¤Let's do this, {xiaozi}. You search in the direction I told you and we'll look at what the stone tablet says on the way up, since we're both going that way anyway.
告罪书......告罪？¤Letter of Confession...Confession?
经过时间的磨砺，刻上去的部分文字已经变得模糊不清，你解读起来十分吃力，只能凭借上下文揣测笔者的意图。¤After the grinding of time, the engraved text has become blurred and difficult to interpret. You can only guess the author's intention by relying on the context.
我...失误...导致阵心...毁，实在无颜面...宗门。灵气溃...破阵出，沃焦山一带...作焦土，生灵涂炭。¤I...made a mistake...and destroyed the core of the formation, causing shame to our clan. The spiritual energy collapsed and broke the formation, turning the area around Inferno Mountain into scorched earth and causing great suffering to the living beings.
看样子沃焦山以前曾经发生过事故......？¤It seems that Inferno Mountain has experienced an accident before...?
故此留书...封，若后...传达，某感激不尽。¤Therefore, leaving this book...sealed, if it is to be conveyed later...I would be extremely grateful.
正在思考时你发觉周围的空间似乎变得狭小了许多，远方仿佛能看到坚实的土地。¤As you were deep in thought, you suddenly realized that the space around you seemed to have become much smaller. In the distance, you could see solid land.
不会错的，就是这里！你多加小心，我也不能准确判断出这股气息的来源。¤No mistakes, this is the place! Be cautious, I cannot accurately determine the source of this aura.
听了魏无极的话，你打起十二分精神小心翼翼地上了岸。不同于外面的乱石堆砌，此处装潢精致，似有人居。¤After listening to Wei Wuji's words, you carefully climbed onto the shore with twelve points of spirit. Unlike the messy stone piles outside, this place was exquisitely decorated, as if it were inhabited.
你躲在石柱后悄悄地往屋子里望去，一只通体赤红的兽伏在毯上睡梦正酣。¤From behind the stone pillar, you peeked quietly into the room, where a fully red beast was sound asleep on a blanket.
火麒麟！¤Fire Qilin!
难不成这里就是麟庙？¤Could it be that this is Lin Temple?
这火麒麟修为过高，主意万万不能打到它身上。你不妨看看四周有无暗红色果实，倒是可以取走几颗。¤The fire Qilin's cultivation is too high, we cannot provoke it. You can look around for any dark red fruits nearby, and take a few.
可是火麒麟尾边的那株矮木？¤However, what about the short tree beside the Fire Qilin's tail?
正是，此乃血菩提，为火麒麟伴生植物。¤Indeed, this is the Blood Bodhi Fruit, a plant that grows alongside the Fire Qilin.
你飞速地捋下几颗果子揣进怀中拔腿冲回岩浆中，火麒麟并没有追上来。¤You quickly picked a few fruits, tucked them into your arms, and rushed back into the lava. The fire qilin did not chase after you.
你用神识护住自己，放轻动作摘下几颗果子，小心地返回原路。¤You use soul sense to protect yourself, carefully pick a few fruits while being light-footed, and return the same way.
你运起功法藏匿气息，静静地摘下几颗果子后原路返回。¤You activate your technique to conceal your aura, quietly plucking a few fruits before retracing your steps.
此地连接离火门麟庙，你这{xiaozi}还是不要作死的好。¤This place connects to Fire Gate Sect's Lin Temple. It's better for you not to act recklessly, {xiaozi}.
我还不会敛息术。¤I don't know the breath control skill yet.
小子快跑，你神识太低，敛息术不生效被发现了。¤Kid, run fast! Your soul sense is too low, the breath control skill is ineffective and you were found out.
你提气准备莽过去。¤你提气准备莽过去
因为四象蟠龙带的功效你没有感到灼热，像是在海水中遨游一样，但围绕着你的却是绚烂的红色。¤Due to the effect of the Four Elephants Pendragon Belt, you did not feel any burning sensation, as if swimming in the sea, but the surroundings are filled with dazzling red color.
因为避火珠的功效你没有感到灼热，像是在海水中遨游一样，但围绕着你的却是绚烂的红色。¤Because of the effectiveness of the Fire Cleansing Pearl, you do not feel the heat, as if swimming in seawater, but what surrounds you is a dazzling red color.
因为辟火袍的功效你没有感到灼热，像是在海水中遨游一样，但围绕着你的却是绚烂的红色。¤Due to the effects of the Fire Cleanse Robe, you do not feel any burning sensation, as if you are swimming in the sea, but the surrounding area is dazzling red.
不好，这离火门火山连接地脉，辟火袍不过一法器抵挡不住这离火门的岩浆！¤Not good, this Fire Gate Sect's volcano is connected to the Geological Vein. The Fire Cleanse Robe is only a magic tool and can't withstand the magma of the Fire Gate Sect!
{vpunch=10,0.5}这是？¤{vpunch=10,0.5} What is this?
咔.咔....咔¤Click. Click... Click.
不好，这离火门火山连接地脉，辟火法袍抵挡不住这离火门的岩浆！¤Not good, the volcano of Fire Gate Sect is connected to the geological vein, Fire Cleanse Mantra can't withstand the lava of Fire Gate Sect!
因为辟火法袍的功效你没有感到灼热，像是在海水中遨游一样，但围绕着你的却是绚烂的红色。¤Due to the effectiveness of the Fire Cleanse Mantra, you did not feel the heat, as if swimming in the sea, but the surroundings around you were magnificent red.
因为辟火珠的功效你没有感到灼热，像是在海水中遨游一样，但围绕着你的却是绚烂的红色。¤Due to the effects of the Fire Cleansing Pearl, you didn't feel the scorching heat, as if gliding through seawater, but the surroundings were shimmering with bright red.
你身上虽没有辟火法宝，但你对火之道的领悟已经达到融会贯通，炙热的岩浆不能伤你分毫。¤Although you don't possess the fire cleanse artifact, your understanding of the fire dao has reached enlightenment and the scorching magma cannot harm you even a bit.
小心！¤Be careful!
一团赤红的火焰直奔你而来。¤A ball of scarlet flame shot straight towards you.
{xiaozi}，你家炎鹤大人心情好，拿着走吧。¤{xiaozi}, your Lord Fiery Crane is in a good mood, take it and go.
你看到洞口激活一道光幕。¤You see a light screen activate at the entrance of the cave.
阁下能到此地也是缘分，这血菩提及送你了¤The fact that you are able to come to this place is also fate. This Blood Bodhi Fruit is a gift to you.
你刚走到血菩提身后就被火麒麟发现，所见的最后一幕是横扫而来的牛尾。¤You were just discovered by the Fire Qilin as you reached behind the Blood Bodhi Fruit, and the last thing you saw was the sweeping cow tail.
那我还是快点离开吧。¤Then I'll just leave quickly.
傻{xiaozi}，你这是被发现了，还好那火麒麟手下留情了。¤Stupid {xiaozi}, you were caught, but luckily the Fire Kirin went easy on you.
当你回过神来已经出现在火山口了，脚下还有一颗血菩提。¤When you come to your senses, you have already appeared at the mouth of the volcano, and there is still a Blood Bodhi Fruit under your feet.
切，哪家的傻{xiaozi}？滚！¤Hmph, which idiot {xiaozi} is this? Get lost!
宁王殿下，属下已将人带到。¤Your Highness, the subordinate has brought the person.
外界传闻宁王不过是筑基初期的修士，没想到气势竟如此恐怖！¤Rumours from outside claim that the Ning King is only at the early Foundation Establishment stage of cultivation, yet his aura is surprisingly terrifying!
{xiaozi}没见过世面，这可是凡世的真龙天子。不过依老夫观察，这宁王身上龙气涣散，且被浊气侵蚀，怕是为了延长寿命练了什么{color=#d0380a}奇怪的功法{/color}，才落得如此模样。¤{xiaozi} has not seen the world, this is the true Dragon Emperor of the mortal world. However, from my observation, the Ning King's dragon Qi is dispersed and corroded by impurities. It is probably due to some {color=#d0380a}strange techniques{/color} he practiced to extend his lifespan, which resulted in such a state.
你悄悄抬起头看向高坐堂上的宁王，此人形销骨立，面容枯槁，一身华服松松垮垮地挂在瘦削的躯体上，看起来格外滑稽。正在此时你恰巧对上他的目光，那一瞬间从他眼中露出的寒芒令你心生畏惧。¤You quietly lifted your head and looked towards the high throne where the Ning King sat. This person had a withered appearance, with a face and body that appeared twisted. His elegant clothing hung loose on his thin frame, making him look particularly ridiculous. At that moment, your gaze coincidentally met his, and the cold gleam that flashed in his eyes filled you with fear.
街路的两边人山人海，把斗法台围了个水泄不通，你不由地感到好奇，便也凑上前去...¤On both sides of the street, there was a sea of people surrounding the dueling terrace, making it difficult to move. Curiosity got the better of you, and you approached as well...
诶，道友此言差矣，这世上能筑基之人是不少，但最后能结丹的可真是万里出一。¤Hey, fellow daoist, your words are mistaken. There are many who can build a foundation in this world, but only one in a million can reach the core formation.
听说宁王府年年招揽供奉，但人数却依旧不多，想来这供奉也不是那么好当的。¤I heard that the Ning King's Manor recruits guest elders every year, but the number of people is still not many. It seems that being a guest elder is not that easy.
又赢一个...此人已经连胜了三场，依我看他这次是很有希望啊。¤Another win...This person has already won three consecutive rounds. In my opinion, he has a high chance of winning this time.
此二人皆有筑基修为，你聚精会神地看了一会儿，只觉招招精妙，令你获益匪浅。¤Both of them have foundation building cultivation. As you focus and watch carefully, you can distinctly feel their every move is exquisite and it greatly benefits you.
哼，空有一身修为，却挖空心思想去为那宁王卖命，落入凡尘俗世被荣华富贵蒙蔽双眼，仙途也就到此止了吧。¤Hmph. Despite having high cultivation, wasting all thoughts and efforts to serve the Ning King, falling into the mundane world and being blinded by fame and wealth, the path to immortality ends here.
斗法台上，两位头戴六合帽的修士打得不可开交，二人皆着墨绿小褂，上书遒劲古字，看来是师出同门。台下围观者众多，不时传来阵阵叫好声。¤On the dueling terrace, two cultivators wearing hats embroidered with the emblem of the universe fought fiercely. They both wore green jackets with bold and ancient characters embroidered on them, indicating their same sect background. There were many spectators around the terrace, cheering loudly at times.
像我们这种天赋平平的，能筑基便已是走运，闭关修炼也不知何时是个头。人生苦短，倒不如享受享受荣华富贵。¤For those of us with average talent, being able to build a foundation is already lucky enough. Closing up for cultivation is unknown when it will happen. Life is short, so we might as well enjoy riches and honor.
师祖说过，四柄魔剑互有感应，被发现的时间也极为接近，所以那柄诛仙剑也极有可能在近日出世。¤Master has said that the four demon swords have a special connection with each other and their discovery times are very close. Therefore, it is highly likely that the immortal sword will also appear in the near future.
因举办英杰会，且楼主驰援中州，诸多事宜之下，我白帝楼与倪家府邸附近总有陌生人出现，似有人图谋不轨，我白帝楼正在组织人手调查，为避免打草惊蛇，初来本地的小友很适合这个任务。¤Due to the forthcoming Young Heroes' Conference and the fact that the host has gone to Ningzhou for assistance, there have been many incidents at White Emperor Pavilion and the Ni Family Mansion which involved strangers appearing nearby. It seems that someone has an ulterior motive, therefore, White Emperor Pavilion is currently organizing manpower to investigate. To avoid alerting the enemy, young friends who are new to this area are suitable for this quest.
哈哈哈哈，凌轩小儿不在，白帝楼何人主事啊？¤Hahaha, Ling Xuan is not here. Who is the master of White Emperor Pavilion?
最近这段时间，图南海一直有发狂的海兽袭击商队的传闻。¤Recently, there have been rumors of sea beasts attacking merchant ships in the South Tu Sea.
小友这是？¤Who is this young friend?
那...你一定是发现了什么线索吧？¤Well...You must have discovered some clues, right?
你屏息凝神缩在角落，过了好一阵。¤You focus your breath and shrink into the corner, it passes for a good while.
一般来说，能够引起如此天地异象的，一定是通天灵宝级别的法宝。所以大家都猜测，这漩涡便是某个海底遗迹的入口，而那通天灵宝，便藏在这个遗迹之中。¤Generally speaking, something that can cause such unusual phenomena in the heavens and earth must be a spiritual treasure at the level of "communicating with the heavens and treasures". Therefore, everyone speculates that this vortex is the entrance to some undersea ruins, and that spiritual treasure is hidden within this ruin.
晚辈特来复命。¤I came to deliver a message.
恭送前辈。¤Respectfully sending off the senior.
师祖刚好在前些日子回到楼中，{FirstName}{xiongdi}不如直接去见他老人家吧。¤Shizhu just happened to return to the building a few days ago, {FirstName}, why don't you go directly to pay respects to him?
他是种下¤He is the seed that was planted.
血河，欺负年轻人有什么意思啊？老夫陪你玩玩！！！¤Blood river, what's the point of bullying the young? Let this old man play with you!!!
正是！¤Exactly!
血河老儿，上次吃的教训还不够吗？¤Blood River old man, last time's lesson wasn't enough for you?
也只能这...¤Can only do this...
总之，此番魔门夺走戮仙剑和绝仙剑，再加上之前天魔道手里的那柄陷仙剑，四剑已出其三。¤In short, the Demon Sect has taken the Immortal Executing Sword and the Immortal Severing Sword, in addition to the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciple's Sword of Immortality. Three out of four swords have now been taken.
没关系，师祖刚好在前些日子回到楼中，{FirstName}{xiongdi}不如直接去见他老人家吧。¤It's okay, Master has just returned to the building a few days ago. Why don't you go see him directly, {FirstName} {xiongdi}?
我有一要事想要当面求教白帝，不知他当下人在何处，可否与我见上一面？¤I have an important matter that I wish to seek advice from the White Emperor in person. I do not know where he is at the moment, could I have a chance to meet him?
加入了¤Added
利用宁州本地修士的特点，来此刺探情报的。¤Utilizing the characteristics of the local cultivators in Ningzhou, they came here to gather intelligence.
血剑宫妖人来袭，振东率白帝楼弟子以剑阵拖住这老鬼，城中魔修还望各位道友相助我白帝楼，事后必有重谢。¤Blood Sword Palace demon attacks, Zhen Dong leads the disciples of White Emperor Pavilion to use the sword array to restrain this old ghost. Fellow daoists in the city who are demonic cultivators, please assist our White Emperor Pavilion. There will be heavy thanks afterwards.
倪振东，你算什么东西？这次你师父不在，等我破了阵，拿了剑，灭了你倪家满门！！¤Ní Zhèn Dōng, what are you? Your master isn't here this time. After I break through this formation, grab my sword, I'll destroy your entire Ni Family!
多谢，前辈出手。¤Thank you, senior, for lending a hand.
更奇怪的是，这个漩涡不但位置飘忽不定，而且还时有时无，似乎只在特定的时间出现。¤Strangely, this vortex not only has an unpredictable location, but it also appears and disappears at certain times.
这倒是个机会，虽然那遗迹里的一定不是诛仙剑，但却是一个弄清楚白帝真面目的好机会。¤This is an opportunity, although the relic inside is definitely not the Immortal Sword, it is a good opportunity to figure out the true identity of the White Emperor.
此人名叫¤This person's name is
所以，小友你是否愿意成为我白帝楼的外围成员¤Therefore, young friend, would you like to become an outer member of my White Emperor Pavilion?
我已经托白帝楼的师兄替我在广陵城备了船。{FirstName}{xiongdi}，事不宜迟，我们这便动身？¤I have already asked my senior brother from the White Emperor Pavilion to prepare a ship for me in Guangling City. {FirstName}, {xiongdi}, we should not delay any longer. Shall we set off now?
这...倪兄找我何事？¤What... does Brother Ni need to see me for?
啊这...倒还没有。¤Ah, not yet.
李天嘛...我有些印象，我本以为他有所机缘方能突破。¤Li Tian... I have some impression of him, I thought he had to have some opportunity before he could make a breakthrough.
我白帝楼乃是剑修圣地，剑术典籍，仙剑，都是上乘之物，只要对我白帝楼有贡献便可自行换取。¤My White Emperor Pavilion is a holy land for sword cultivation, where the sword arts scriptures and immortal swords are exceptional treasures. As long as one contributes to the White Emperor Pavilion, they can exchange for these treasures.
一切顺利。¤All is well.
我白帝楼乃是百余年前，由九州第一剑修“白帝”在武陵城创立松散剑修组织，意在除魔卫道，还九州一个安宁。¤My White Emperor Pavilion was founded over a century ago by the number one sword cultivator in the Nine Provinces, 
害，魔门之间的关系错综复杂，我也弄不太清楚。¤It's complicated, I can't quite understand the relationship between the demon sects.
哦？倪兄弟有何发现？¤Oh? What has Brother Ni discovered?
太好了。¤Great!
再加上一直以来，图南海都有海底遗迹的传闻，说什么有古代的通天灵宝藏在里面。¤Furthermore, there have been rumours of undersea ruins in the South Tu Sea, with ancient spiritual treasures said to be hidden within.
此番凶险，我还是不要出头为好。¤This is a dangerous situation, it's better for me to not get involved.
虽然只是传闻，但绝对不是空穴来风。我将这两件事联系起来一想，觉得这海底遗迹中藏着通天灵宝，而且就是诛仙剑的可能性很大！¤Although it's just a rumor, it's definitely not unfounded. When I connect these two things together, I feel that the undersea ruins may contain spiritual treasures, and there's a high chance that it includes the Immortal Sword!
好，那我这便前去。¤Alright, I will go now.
如此啊，那真是可惜了。¤So that's it, what a pity.
前辈不必如此，对亏您及时来援，四象封魔阵毫发无损。¤Senior, there's no need to do this. Thank you for coming to our aid in time, the Four Elephants Sealing Demon Array is completely unharmed.
一些普通的典籍和法宝自是没什么区别，但像天阶典籍这样的不传之秘，便只有内阁弟子才有资格换取了。¤Some normal scriptures and artifacts are no different, but secrets such as the Heavenly Level scriptures can only be exchanged by disciples of the inner court.
我这不是正准备去图南海调查么，这次来找你也是想邀请你一起去。要是有你相助，我们的把握就更大了！¤I'm about to investigate South Tu Sea, and I came to invite you to join me. With your help, our chances will be even greater!
原来，怪不得其他人没有头绪¤Originally, no wonder the others were clueless.
我也去了！¤I also went!
我已向师祖回禀此事，剩下的就是要弄清楚怎么才能进入遗迹了。¤I have reported this matter to my master, now it's about figuring out how to enter the ruins.
此事我该从何入手？¤Where should I start with this matter?
这次多亏了小友，这人就交给我吧。¤Thanks to my young friend this time, I'll take care of this person.
之前天魔道掌握着四柄魔剑之一的陷仙剑，因此势力最大，一直占据着最好的修炼资源。如今古神教和血剑宫各自也找回一柄魔剑，想必他们之间也少不了一番争斗。¤Before, the Heavenly Demon Cult disciple who had possession of the Blood Sword Palace's Demon Sword of Immortality held the greatest power and occupied the best cultivation resources. Now, the Ancient God Sect and Blood Sword Palace have each reclaimed a demon sword, which undoubtedly will lead to a fierce battle between them.
本是一名平平无奇的散修，本次参加英杰会，修为大涨，出了不小风头。¤The protagonist was originally a mediocre independent cultivator, but after participating in the Young Hero's Tournament, their cultivation greatly increased and they gained a lot of attention.
不算顺利...¤Not smooth...
嗯，此事需尽快处理，以防日久生变。¤Well, this matter needs to be handled as soon as possible to prevent further complications.
原来是{FirstName}{LastName}，你是初次来我白帝楼吧，之前比较仓促，此番就由我来为你详细介绍一下吧，你想要了解什么？¤So it turns out that you are {FirstName}{LastName}. This is your first time visiting our White Emperor Pavilion, right? Last time was quite rushed, but now let me give you a detailed introduction. What would you like to know?
不过你放心，我师兄联合多位道友已在外埋伏，纵使留不下血河，也要付出代价，我们宁州岂是想来就来，想走就走的？¤Rest assured, my senior brother and several fellow daoists have already laid an ambush outside. Even if they cannot make a river of blood, the enemy will definitely pay a price. Do you think our Ningzhou is a place where anyone can come and go as they please?
那是自然，无尽之海不比我们宁州，可谓是高手如云。而且若真是诛仙剑出世，到时候不仅是魔门，说不定那四大妖圣也会来凑凑热闹。¤That is natural. The Endless Sea is no match for our Ningzhou, where experts abound. And if the Immortal Sword really appears, not only the Demon Sect but also the Four Great Demon Saints may come to join the fun.
祭血使听令，动手！！！¤Blood sacrificial ritual, obey and attack!!!
...是吗，和我记忆中不同啊¤Is that so? It's different from what I remember.
在宁州古迹出世的那柄戮仙剑，已经被玄骨老祖带回了衡州。古神教如今山门紧闭，因此没法打探到更多的消息。绝仙剑也在此前被血剑宫暗中夺取。¤The Immortal Executing Sword that appeared in the ancient ruin of Ning Province has been taken back to Hengzhou by Patriarch Dark Bones. The Ancient God Sect's gates are now tightly closed, so no further information can be obtained. The Immortal Severing Sword was also secretly taken by the Blood Sword Palace beforehand.
{FirstName}前辈，{$TmpStrValue}道友正在炼丹室内等你。¤Senior {FirstName}, Fellow Daoist {$TmpStrValue} is waiting for you in the alchemy room.
说实话，这个漩涡很多人都见过，但海底遗迹和通天灵宝什么的就只是大家的猜测了。¤Honestly, many people have seen this vortex, but the undersea ruins and spiritual treasures are just speculation among everyone.
这个传闻其实有些年头了，图南海上有一个巨大的漩涡，要是不巧被卷入这个旋涡，即便是元婴期修士也极难挣脱。¤This rumor has actually been around for quite some time. There is a huge vortex in the South Tu Sea, and even a Nascent Soul cultivator would find it very difficult to escape if they are unfortunately caught in the whirlpool.
好，那便麻烦你带路了。¤Okay, then please lead the way.
你能听到城内杀声四起，直指白帝楼。¤You can hear the sounds of killing within the city, heading straight towards the White Emperor Pavilion.
楼外传来一声高呼。¤A loud shout came from outside the building.
等等...你是说白帝前辈也会去这个海底遗迹？¤Wait...did you say Senior White Emperor will also go to these undersea ruins?
{FirstName}{xiongdi},此行可还顺利？¤{FirstName} brother, has this journey gone smoothly?
据说那些海兽很像宁州古迹中那些被煞气侵染的修士，神智不清，甚至会主动攻击比自己实力强大的人。¤It is said that those sea beasts are very similar to the cultivators in the ancient ruins of Ning Province who were infected with evil energy, their minds are unclear, and they even actively strike at people stronger than them.
事情原由，还请小友一一道来。¤The reason behind this matter, please explain it to me one by one, young friend.
想要确保万无一失的话，还是得师祖这样的化神期强者出手才行。¤If you want to ensure everything goes smoothly, you still need a deity transformation expert like our master to take action.
好，我会在广陵城港口等你，到时候我们一起出发！¤Okay, I will wait for you at Guangling City port, and we will set off together when the time comes!
修为达到筑基期后，若你的剑道修为达到初窥门径且仍是散修之身，便可正式加入我白帝楼。¤After reaching the Foundation Establishment stage of cultivation, if your sword dao cultivation reaches the First Glimpse of Dao and you are still an independent cultivator, you can formally join our White Emperor Pavilion.
不如这样，前辈暂且回去等候，若是有消息了，我立刻通知前辈。¤Then, how about this? Senior, please go back and wait for further news. If there is any update, I will inform you immediately.
那真是太好了，眼下正有一件差事适合交给小友。¤That's great news, there happens to be a task that's suitable for you to handle right now, young friend.
这图南海极为偏远，我们可以先搭船经由蓬莎岛，碎星岛后抵达南崖城。在那里修整后，我们再一路向西航行，穿过吞云海便能到达图南海了。¤The South Tu Sea is extremely remote. We can take a boat to Pongsha Island and Shattered Star Island before reaching South Cliff City. There, we can rest and prepare before sailing west through the Swallowing Cloud Sea to finally arrive at South Tu.
若你加入白帝楼，我们会发布一些调查或是剿灭魔修相关的任务。除此以外，若你平日里留意到什么有关魔门的线索，也可以来此汇报，我们会酌情给予你奖励。¤If you join the White Emperor Pavilion, we will offer quests related to investigating or eliminating demonic cultivators. Additionally, if you happen to come across any clues related to the demonic realm, you may report it here and we will reward you accordingly.
你们这些废物，连个剑阵斗破不了，混元子老子没空和你玩。¤You bunch of useless people, you can't even break a sword array, this seat doesn't have time to play with you chaos.
听说过问道花么？这种奇花便是在图南海被发现的。相传此花蕴含一丝道之真意，是非常珍贵的炼丹草药，大部分人去那里都是冲着它去的。¤Have you heard of the Dao Seeker Flower? This exotic flower was found in the South Tu Sea. It is said to contain a trace of true meaning of the Dao and is a precious herb for alchemy. Most people go there in search of it.
你已加入我白帝楼，之后事宜可以来我白帝楼找当值执事。¤You have joined my White Emperor Pavilion. For any future matters, you can come to the pavilion and find the steward on duty.
武陵城客栈掌柜是我白帝楼的人，此事你可以先去问问他有什么详细的情报。¤The innkeeper of Wuling City Inn is affiliated with my White Emperor Pavilion. You can ask him for more detailed information regarding this matter.
金丹期内阁弟子入阵迎敌！！¤Disciples of the Inner Court in the Golden Core stage enter the battle to meet the enemy!
原来是{FirstName}{LastName}前辈，不知前辈今日来白帝楼是有何事？¤So it turns out to be Senior {FirstName}{LastName}. I wonder what brings you to the White Emperor Pavilion today?
那这个海底遗迹的位置确定了么？¤Has the location of the undersea ruins been determined?
按师祖的吩咐，我们最近一直在调查相关的传闻，你猜怎么着？¤According to Master's orders, we have been investigating relevant rumours recently. Guess what happened?
因举办英杰会等诸多事宜之下，武陵城涌入大量的散修。近日我白帝楼与倪家府邸附近总有陌生人出现，似有人图谋不轨，我白帝楼正在组织人手调查，为避免打草惊蛇，初来本地的小友很适合这个任务。¤Due to the organization of the Young Heroes' Conference and other events, a large number of independent cultivators have flooded into Wuling City. There have been many strangers appearing near the White Emperor Pavilion, and it seems that someone may have ulterior motives. The White Emperor Pavilion is currently organizing personnel to investigate, and for young friends who are new to the area able to take this task to avoid alerting the suspects.
请讲。\n¤Please speak.
老道我一时不察让贵派遭受此劫，愧对白帝阁下临行对我的托付啊。¤I was careless for a moment and let your sect suffer this disaster, I am ashamed of the trust that White Emperor has placed in me before leaving.
从宁州古迹回来后，我与几位白帝楼的师兄一起奉命调查戮仙剑和剩下几柄魔剑的下落，如今终于有了一些头绪。¤After returning from the ancient ruins of Ning Province, I was tasked with investigating the whereabouts of the Immortal Executing Sword and the remaining Demon Swords with several Senior Brothers from White Emperor Pavilion. Finally, we have some leads.
我正想找你，刚准备给你发传音符就发现你来了武陵城，实在是太巧了！¤I was just thinking about finding you, and was about to send a sound talisman when I discovered you appeared in Wuling City. It's really fortunate!
这...白帝前辈行踪不定，而且极少回白帝楼，我也许久没有见到他了。¤The senior White Emperor's whereabouts are uncertain and he rarely returns to the White Emperor Pavilion. It's been a long time since I last saw him.
按你之前的说法，莫非你找到了诛仙剑的线索？¤According to what you said before, could it be that you have found a clue about the Immortal Sword?
要在此地采集矿石吗？¤Do you want to gather ores here?
要离开连石山吗？¤leave
说来话长，在下师妹诡毒侵体，实虚宁州香薷入药。万般无奈之下叨扰姑娘修行，望姑娘千万海涵。¤Long story short, my 师妹 has been poisoned by a sinister method, and the herb 宁州香薷 is needed as an ingredient for the antidote. With no other options, I have come to disturb your cultivation, 姑娘, and hope for your forgiveness.
要在这里采集火铜吗？{w}{w=0.5}¤Do you want to gather fire copper here? {w}{w=0.5}
那些深邃的剑痕中多了一道崭新的痕迹，其中蕴凝着属于你的体悟。¤Among those deep sword scars, there is a new, distinct mark that embodies your own understanding.
你听从魏无极的指点将背后的铁剑握在手中，跟随剑意指引挥出剑招。¤You follow Wei Wuji's guidance and grasp the iron sword on your back in your hand, wielding it following the guidance of your sword intent.
剑随心动，{xiaozi}！¤Sword moves with the heart, {xiaozi}!
你面朝剑壁席地而坐，蜂拥而至的剑意挤压着你的神识，你在其中似乎触摸到一丝奇妙的法门。¤You sit cross-legged facing the sword wall, the surging sword intent pressing on your soul sense. Within it, you seem to touch upon a hint of a miraculous technique.
还差一点......¤Almost there...
有着前两次参悟的经验，你轻车熟路地进入了状态，但不知为何灵光转瞬即逝，你没能抓住它。¤With the experience of the previous two enlightenments, you smoothly entered the status, but for some reason, the spiritual light passed by in a flash and you couldn't grasp it.
你盯着剑壁上纵横的剑痕，很快便进入了参悟状态。¤You stare at the crisscrossing sword marks on the sword wall, soon entering a state of contemplation.
当时我在此处顿悟，自创功法《神剑诀》。¤At that time, I had a realization here and created a cultivation technique called 《Divine Sword Art》.
你这{xiaozi}悟性不错，既能体悟石壁剑意那便多来此处几次，或许也能有我这样的际遇。¤Your comprehension is good, {xiaozi}, if you continue to comprehend the sword intent on the Wall and Sword here a few more times, perhaps you will have an experience like mine.
如果我的猜测无误，或许是上古两位剑修大能在此处斗法比试，无意中造就了这充满剑意的山壁。¤If my guess is correct, perhaps the two ancient sword cultivators fought a battle here and unintentionally created this mountain wall full of sword intent.
上古两位剑修大能在此处斗法比试，无意中造就了这充满剑意的山壁。¤Two powerful sword cultivators from ancient times battled and inadvertently created this mountain wall filled with sword intent.
你缓缓地睁开双眼，发现一位身着金虹剑派长老服的修士若有所思地立于山壁旁。¤You slowly open your eyes and see a cultivator dressed in the robes of a Golden Rainbow Sword Sect elder standing thoughtfully by the mountain wall.
察觉到你的变化，他转过身向你走来，你也因此看清了他的眉目，此人竟是门派中的明河剑仙。¤Noticing your change, he turned around and walked towards you. You finally saw his appearance clearly, and he turned out to be the Swordmaster Radiant River of the sect.
我也不知道怎么回事，这山壁好像有蹊跷...上面的痕迹虽杂乱却剑意十足，不似自然造化。¤I don't know what's going on either, but there seems to be something unusual about this mountain wall... the marks on it are disorderly yet filled with sword intent, not like something naturally formed.
没错，这剑壁确实不简单。¤Right, this sword wall is indeed not easy.
你这{xiaozi}总算醒了，还好这两天金虹剑派的巡逻弟子未到此地，不然有你好果子吃。¤You {xiaozi} finally woke up. It’s good that the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect's patrol disciples haven't arrived here in the past two days, otherwise, you would have had a taste of their radiant swords.
玄妙的剑痕道法纷呈，令你神游太虚。¤The mysterious techniques of sword marks were displayed, causing one to wander through the realm of Taixu.
你好奇地靠近了些，发现山壁上满是纵横的沟壑，一道道或锋锐或柔和的剑气萦蕴其中。¤You approached curiously and found that the mountain wall was full of crisscrossing grooves, with sharp or gentle sword qi lingering among them.
此处山壁绵连，走势陡峭，奇怪的是耸起的山峰有些险峻，有些平缓，似是被锐物拦腰切断，呈出圆钝的顶峰。¤The mountain wall here is continuous and steep, with some peaks towering and others gentle. Strangely, some peaks appear to have been cut off by sharp objects, forming rounded and blunt summits.
领悟法术：《斩天剑》¤《Zhantian Sword》
上次对剑壁的领悟还未完全消化，还是过段时间再来吧。¤Last time's enlightenment on the sword wall has not been completely digested, let's come back again in a little while.
你对剑道产生了一些新的感悟...¤You have gained some new insights into the way of the sword...
你对剑道的领悟略微提升了。¤Your understanding of the way of the sword has slightly improved.
只要你帮我办事，此间事了，我便收你为徒打点入教之事。若是修炼有成，区区寿元亏空又算得了什么？¤If you help me with this matter, once it is done, I will take you as my disciple and arrange for you to join our sect. If you succeed in your cultivation, what does it matter if your lifespan is shortened?
哦？是同门师弟？离火门可没有叫人听墙角的功法，师弟若执意修炼也只好留下性命了！¤Oh? A fellow junior? The Fire Gate Sect doesn't teach eavesdropping techniques, so if my junior insists on practicing, they will only end up losing their life!
或许天道注定我与青嫣不应该在一起......¤Perhaps fate has determined that Qing Yan and I should not be together...
你有些不耐烦地同他解释问题并不出在炼丹上，但他显然没有听进去。¤You impatiently explained to him that the problem was not with alchemy, but he clearly didn't listen.
你说的也对，但我真的放不下......¤You're right, but I really can't let go...
你耐着性子又和他缕清原委，希望他重视修炼。¤With patience, you explained the situation to him and hoped he would value his cultivation.
唉，道理我都懂。她怎么就这么不通人情呢......¤Ah, I understand the reasoning behind it. Why is she so unfeeling though...
你才说了没几句，徐凡就语气哀怨地打断了你。¤You only said a few words, and Xu Fan interrupted you with a mournful tone.
修炼没有进步就推脱说自己痴迷炼丹，痴迷炼丹却又没有成果，也难怪她毫无留恋！¤Without any improvement in cultivation, she excuses herself by claiming an obsession with alchemy. Yet, with no results to show for her supposed obsession, it's no wonder she has no attachment to it.
你这人也忒不讲道理，我俩如何干卿底事？¤You're really unreasonable, how are we going to handle this matter?
说着徐凡竟祭出灵剑，看架势是想与你一比高下。¤Speaking, Xu Fan unexpectedly summoned his spiritual sword, and it seemed like he wanted to compete with you to determine who's superior.
道理讲不通便刀剑相向，徐道友实实窝囊废一个！¤If reasoning fails, swords will cross. Xu fellow daoist is nothing but useless waste!
我看青嫣说得没错，不思进取、懦弱无能就是用来形容你这种人的。¤I agree with Qing Yan, "lack of ambition and weakness" are the perfect words to describe someone like you.
这叫什么事儿啊......¤What kind of situation is this...
你叹了口气认命地走出去，看到徐凡失魂落魄的样子，你决定¤You sighed, resignedly walking out. Seeing Xu Fan's lost and forlorn appearance, you made a decision.
道友不必躲躲藏藏了，我已经看见你了。¤Fellow daoist, there's no need to hide anymore. I've already seen you.
你看向身后，原来刚才只顾着不被青嫣发现极力向后挪动，导致你的衣角露出了石柱的另一边。¤You looked back and realized that you had been so focused on avoiding being discovered by Qing Yan that you had moved backwards, causing your garment to reveal the other side of the stone pillar.
说完女子头也不回地向洞口走去，你连忙朝石柱内侧蹭了蹭以免被发现。¤After finishing speaking, the woman did not even turn her head and walked towards the cave entrance. You quickly rubbed against the inside of the stone pillar to avoid being discovered.
没想到蹲守此处竟看了场话本似的闹剧，你不禁感到有些无奈。¤Unexpectedly, by squatting in this place, you witnessed a farcical scene that seemed like a script, and you couldn't help but feel somewhat helpless.
看不起炼丹？我是看不起你！¤Looking down on alchemy? I'm the one looking down on you!
炼丹几十年，就算服用你自己炼制的丹药也该突破筑基了，偏偏你的修为一点长进都没有。¤Alchemy for dozens of years, even if you consume the pills you refined yourself, you should have broken through to foundation establishment, yet your cultivation growth is nonexistent.
你又何必如此看不起炼丹？¤Why do you look down on alchemy so?
女子怒极反笑，看向徐凡的目光中已然带着凛冽冷意。¤The woman was so angry that she laughed sarcastically, and her gaze towards Xu Fan was icy and chilling.
先前共同规划的仙途如今半点也没实现，我看你我的缘分到此为止了。¤The immortal path we planned together has not been achieved at all, I think our fate ends here.
青嫣，你的道是什么？¤Qing Yan, what is your dao?
修仙之人大道千万，各有不同。但我既入了星河剑派，剑自然就是我的道。¤The path of cultivation is many and varied. However, since I have entered the Celestial River Sword Sect, the sword is naturally my dao.
但剑却不是我的道。¤But the sword is not my path.
笑话！剑不是你的道，你却入金虹剑派！难不成金虹剑派专教人炼丹不成？¤Joke! Sword is not your path, yet you entered the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect! Does the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect specialize in teaching people alchemy?
徐凡，你若再这样不思进取我看先前的约定不如就作罢吧。¤Xu Fan, if you continue to lack ambition like this, I think it's better to just cancel our previous agreement.
为了不被发现，你悄悄地矮下身子藏在了石柱后面，谨慎地探出头打量着洞内的情况。¤In order to avoid being discovered, you quietly crouched down and hid behind the stone pillar, cautiously poking your head out to observe the situation inside the cave.
刚进入石洞，你便听到女子的声音传来。¤As soon as you entered the stone cave, you heard the voice of a woman.
你近日修炼成果如何了？\r¤cultivation
只见一位金虹剑派的男修同星河剑派的女修立于洞中，不知在商议着什么。¤A male cultivator from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect and a female cultivator from the Celestial River Sword Sect were seen standing in the cave, discussing something.
咦？是徐凡师兄。难不成另一位星河剑派的女修就是他口中的朋友？¤Eh? It's Senior Brother Xu Fan. Could it be that the other female cultivator from Celestial River Sword Sect he mentioned is his friend?
哼，你听到什么那就是什么！好好沟通你不听，不如打得你听！¤Hmph, what you hear is what it is! If you won't listen to reason, then it's better to make you listen through force!
道友此话何意？¤Fellow Daoist, what do you mean by these words?
提及青嫣，徐凡面色一变，显然是被戳到了痛处。¤Mentioning Qing Yan caused a change in Xu Fan's expression, clearly hitting a sore spot.
道理我都......¤The reason, I have already...
道理你都懂，只怪壮志难酬，青梅竹马数十载不抵世俗成见？¤You understand the reason, but it's a pity that your ambition is hard to fulfill. Childhood sweethearts for decades unable to withstand worldly prejudices?
咦......？道友真是我徐凡的知音，竟不用说完便能猜到我心中所想。¤Hmm...? Fellow Daoist truly is my kindred spirit, able to guess my thoughts without me finishing my words.
听闻此言你不禁怒从中来，亮出了自己的法器。¤Upon hearing these words, you couldn't help but become furious and revealed your magic tool.
简直是对牛弹琴！像你这样懦弱无能又不思进取的窝囊废活该青嫣看不上你！¤Simply playing the lute to a cow! Someone as cowardly and useless as you, who lacks ambition and is so pitiful, deserves to be looked down upon by Qing Yan!
你到底能不能讲通道理？¤Can you really speak sense?
还有正事要办，先不要到处乱逛了吧。¤There is still work to be done, so don't wander around aimlessly for now.
倪旭欣的房门紧闭着，你决定...？¤Ni Xuxin's door is tightly closed, what do you decide to do?
你想也不想，直接把手放在门上想要将门推开。未曾想一股强大的禁制之力传来，猝不及防间你被向后推去，结结实实地摔了个屁股墩儿。¤Without thinking, you put your hand on the door and tried to push it open. Unexpectedly, a strong restrictive force appeared, pushing you back and causing you to fall hard on your butt.
你轻轻地叩了叩门，一股柔和的禁制之力将你的手推了回去。¤You lightly knocked on the door, but a soft restraining force pushed your hand back.
你弄出的声音引起了倪旭欣的注意，他来到房门口大声地呼喊着。¤The sound you made caught the attention of Ni Xuxin, who arrived at the door shouting loudly.
{FirstName}{LastName}{xiongdi}！你总算来了！¤{FirstName}{LastName}{xiongdi}! Finally, you have arrived!
你在院子里转了几圈，大大小小的装饰摸了个遍，也没想出什么破解的办法。¤After circling around the courtyard a few times and touching all the various decorations, I still couldn't come up with any way to solve the problem.
老头儿，你有什么办法解开倪家主的禁制吗?¤Old man, do you have any way to lift the restriction imposed on the lord of Ni Family?
办法是有，可你和这小子修为太低。¤There is a way, but your and this kid's cultivation is too low.
......你还不如直接说没办法。¤You might as well just say that you can't do it.
倪兄！这禁制有些棘手，想来只凭你我之力无法破开，只好委屈你在房间里多待一阵了。¤Brother Ni! This prohibition is quite tricky, I'm afraid that we won't be able to break it with our strength alone. We'll have to ask for your help and have you stay in the room a bit longer.
呜呼哀哉！！！¤Alas!
你似乎隔着房门听见了心碎的声音...¤You seem to hear the sound of a broken heart through the door...
你轻轻地叩了叩门，一股柔和的禁制之力将你的手推了回去...¤You knocked gently on the door, but a gentle force of restriction pushed your hand back...
二叔！杨管家！倪长老！我再也不乱跑了！你们快把禁制解了吧！¤Uncle Er! Steward Yang! Elder Ni! I won't run around anymore! Please release the restriction quickly!
你清了清嗓子，房间里立刻没了声音。¤You cleared your throat, and immediately the room fell silent.
门外可是{FirstName}{LastName}{xiongdi}？¤Is it {FirstName} {LastName}'s brothers outside the door?
咳，我来探望一下倪兄。¤Ahem, I'm here to visit Brother Ni.
话说先前那张传送符将你送去了何处？¤So, where did the teleportation talisman take you before?
不知为何，倪旭欣的声音听起来有一些颤抖，你只当他是关心你的情况，便安慰道¤For some unknown reason, Ni Xuxin's voice sounded a bit shaky. You assumed that he was concerned about your situation and comforted him.
也算幸运，没有将我传送到什么奇怪的地方，我一睁眼睛便发现自己身处天星城问道楼前了。¤It can be considered lucky that I was not sent to some strange place. As soon as I opened my eyes, I found myself in front of the Heavenly Star City Taoist Inquisition Building.
也！算！幸！运！¤Great! Just my luck!
你知道为什么我又被关禁闭了吗！这个符它！直接！把我传送回了倪！家！大！院！¤Do you know why I was imprisoned again? It's because of this talisman! It directly transported me back to the Ni family's mansion courtyard!
倪旭欣自顾自地在房间里发泄着不满，为了自己的耳朵着想，你决定过一阵再来看他。¤Ni Xuxin was venting his dissatisfaction in the room to himself. For the sake of your own ears, you decided to come back and check on him later.
你轻轻敲了敲门，一股柔和的禁制之力将你的手推开。¤You lightly knocked on the door, but a gentle forbidden force pushed your hand away.
唉，好不容易逃出去却又被传送了回来......难道我的青春就要在禁闭里度过了吗？¤Ah, finally managed to escape but got sent back again... Does it mean that I have to spend my youth in confinement?
我爹在屋子里下了禁制，说我要是不能突破到筑基期，就不让我再出门了！¤My father placed a restriction in the room, saying that if I can't break through to the Foundation Establishment stage, he won't let me go out again!
你有没有什么办法把我弄出去？？¤Do you have any way to get me out of here??
你答应了倪旭欣的请求，但倪府内高手林立，你二人秉烛夜谈，制定了粗略的计划。¤You agreed to Ni Xuxin's request, but there are many skilled individuals in Ni's Manor. You and him talked late into the night and formulated a rough plan.
你认为倪旭欣多虑了，拒绝了他的请求。¤Do you think Ni Xuxin is being too cautious by rejecting his request?
不知{FirstName}{xiongdi}可有时间在府中逗留几日，帮我探寻一下他们的情况？¤I wonder if {FirstName} {xiongdi} have time to stay in the mansion for a few days and help me investigate their situation?
若觉得我到处惹是生非招人嫌何必等到今日才表露出来？¤If you think I'm causing trouble everywhere and making people dislike me, why wait until today to reveal it?
一定是他们做了什么对不起我的亏心事。¤It must be something they did that goes against me and caused this feeling of guilt.
不成，我想想还是觉得有些古怪。¤I can't do it, I think it still feels a bit odd.
但我绞尽脑汁也想不出为何二叔也要躲着我，难不成这几人偷偷做了什么对不起我的事？¤But no matter how hard I think, I can't figure out why Second Uncle is also avoiding me. Could it be that these people have secretly done something that offends me?
“一剑削了胡子...这谁看了都得绕着你走吧......”¤One sword shaved his beard... Anyone who sees it must walk around you...
长老还算有迹可循，毕竟我没少给他添麻烦，刚回府那日练剑时还不小心一剑削了他的胡子。¤Elder can still be traced, after all, I've caused him trouble before. When I returned home and practiced swordsmanship that day, I accidentally cut off his beard with a sword.
倪旭荣这小子也算了，平日就不怎么亲近我。¤Ni Xurong, this kid, doesn't really get close to me on ordinary days.
不知道为什么，府里的人见我像见了什么洪水猛兽一般。消息没打听到几个，气倒受了不少。¤I don't know why, but the people in the mansion treat me as if I'm some kind of ferocious beast. I haven't been able to gather much information and it's quite frustrating.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你总算来了，这几日我在府内真是不自在极了。¤{FirstName} Brother, you finally came! I've been feeling so unsettled in the mansion these past few days.
你将准备去的地点告知倪旭欣，由他出马缠住房间主人，你乘机溜入房内展开调查。¤Inform Ni Xuxin of the location you're planning to go to, and have him distract the room's owner while you enter and conduct your investigation.
昨日你答应倪旭欣探寻众人隐瞒他之事，先去哪里好呢？¤Yesterday, you promised Ni Xuxin to investigate the matter that everyone is hiding from him. Where should we go first?
多谢{FirstName}{xiongdi}带来消息，我倪府必将找出登上那海上仙山的办法。¤Thank you, {FirstName} {xiongdi}, for bringing the news. Ni's Manor will definitely find a way to climb the Immortal Mountain on the sea.
此山几次现世都被记录在册，天机阁也曾派出修士前往东海查探仙山踪迹。但东海迷雾朦朦，连金丹修士都会在其中迷失方向，倪家奉命前去东海搜寻的供奉就因这海雾失去了联系。¤This mountain has been recorded in the book several times, and the Heavenly Machine Pavilion has sent cultivators to investigate the whereabouts of the immortal mountain in the East Sea. However, the mist in the East Sea is so dense that even Golden Core cultivators can lose their way in it. The Guest Elder from the Ni Family, who was sent to search for it in the East Sea, lost contact due to this mist.
这可真是棘手......¤This is really tricky...
倪兄有何见解？¤What is Brother Ni's opinion?
实不相瞒，我们在得到这个消息之时便前去天机阁打听岱舆山的方位。¤To be honest, upon receiving this news, we went to Heavens Secrets Pavilion to inquire about the location of Daiyu Mountain.
望日后若{FirstName}{xiongdi}获得岱舆踪迹还可知会我一声。¤In the future, if {FirstName} and {xiongdi} gain any information about the whereabouts of Daiyu, please let me know.
你将从灵药堂打听来的消息说与倪旭欣，他神色微动，似是要说什么又忍住了。¤You will tell the news you heard from Spirit Herb Hall to Ni Xuxin. His expression slightly changed, as if he wanted to say something but stopped himself.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}何事？¤{FirstName}, brother, what's the matter?
我方才问过长老，待我爹完全康复大约也需要一段时日，{FirstName}{xiongdi}若是想打听御剑门之事不如一个月后再来。¤I have just asked the elder, and it will take some time for my father to fully recover. If {FirstName}{xiongdi} want to inquire about the Imperial Sword Sect, it's better to come back after a month.
这份谢礼是以倪家的名义送给{xiongdi}的，你就收下吧。¤This gift is sent to you in the name of the Ni family, {xiongdi}, please accept it.
既然如此我就却之不恭了，不知倪家主醒来大概需要多久？¤If that's the case, then I'll take my leave disrespectfully. I wonder how long it will be before the master of the Ni family wakes up?
我知道{xiongdi}帮助我是出于情义，但此次你帮助的不仅仅是我，还有我身后的整个倪家。¤I know that {xiongdi} helping me is out of brotherhood, but this time you not only helped me, but also the entire Ni Family behind me.
是我唐突了，大恩不言谢。{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我先把这药拿给长老好快些嘱咐供奉炼药，麻烦你在此稍等片刻。¤I have been rude, but I will not forget your kindness. {FirstName} {xiongdi}, I will give this medicine to the elder and ask the guest elder to refine it quickly. Please wait here for a moment.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}！我已将此事告给长老，大约再有十日八日丹药便能炼制出来！¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}! I have reported this matter to the elders, and the pills can be refined in about ten to eight days!
过了半晌他才反应过来，急切的目光紧盯着玉盒。¤After a while, he finally reacted and his eager gaze was fixed on the jade box.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，这灵药你开个价吧，不论多少我们倪家都要了。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, what's your price for this spiritual pill? No matter the quantity, our Ni Family will take it.
你将先前发生的事一五一十地说给倪旭欣，然后把从阮五娘那里得到的天蝉灵叶转交给倪旭欣。¤Tell the story of what happened to Ni Xuxin in detail, and then give the Heavenly Cicada Spirit Leaf obtained from Ruan Wuniang to Ni Xuxin.
倪旭欣一副呆若木鸡的样子，似乎是被突如其来的喜讯冲昏了头。¤Ni Xuxin had a blank expression, seemingly dazed by the sudden good news.
你我相交甚久，倪兄竟认为我是乘人之危的小人吗？¤We have been acquainted for so long, does Brother Ni really think of me as someone who takes advantage of others in their time of weakness?
这些是倪府的薄礼，请你务必收下。¤These are the humble gifts from Ni's Manor. Please do accept them.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，何事？¤{FirstName}, my brothers, what's the matter?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你总算来了！¤{FirstName} my brother, you've finally come!
总之...也不知道为什么，府里的人见我像见了什么洪水猛兽一般，什么都不肯和我说。¤Anyway...I don't know why, but the people in the mansion treat me like a ferocious creature and refuse to speak with me about anything.
长老还算有迹可循，毕竟我刚回府那日练剑时不小心一剑削了他的胡子。¤The elder still had some traces remaining. After all, on the day I returned home, while practicing my sword, I accidentally cut off a part of his beard.
我可是已经突破到金丹期了，怎么会还会到处闯祸！{xiongdi}可别把我还当成那个成天离家出走的孩子了。¤I have already broken through to the golden core stage, how could I still be causing trouble everywhere? {xiongdi}, don't treat me like that child who always ran away from home.
我也是这么认为的，可若是家里出了什么大事，怎么可能没人告诉我呢？¤I also think so, but if there is a big problem at home, how is it possible that no one tells me?
唉，自打我回府以来的这段时间真是不自在极了。¤Ah, these past few times since I returned to the mansion have been extremely uncomfortable.
诸位宾客也是各自聊着不知是什么的话题。¤All the guests were chatting about unknown topics.
通羽，时间差不多了，准备进行仪式吧。¤Tongyu, it's almost time. Let's prepare for the ceremony.
那，择日不如撞日，我们现下就出发，如何？¤So why wait for a good day? Let's depart now, shall we?
行对席礼！自礼成起，你二人当是琴瑟和同，不分贵贱。¤Perform the etiquette of seating! From the moment the ritual is completed, the two of you should be like the perfect harmony of a zither and a se, without distinguishing between high and low.
还是说，就是丹阳子命你们为难我，借此羞辱我师父？¤Is it that Dan Yangzi ordered you to make things difficult for me and use it as an opportunity to humiliate my master?
三个金丹期修士，连一个筑基初期的丫头片子都看不住。¤Three cultivators at the Golden Core stage couldn't even keep an eye on a foundation-establishing girl.
曾经倪兄拉我去探险时，也是这么说的。¤When Brother Ni invited me to go on an adventure before, he said the same thing.
抱歉，我还有其他事要忙，{$Lin}还是另找他人吧。¤Sorry, I have other matters to attend to. Please find someone else for {$Lin}.
行沃盥礼！自礼成起，你二人当是着眼未来，不论过去。¤Perform the Xingwo cleansing ceremony! From this moment on, the two of you should focus on the future and not dwell on the past.
倪家主闻言只是哈哈大笑，然后便是转过头去与其他人闲聊，不再与脸色不悦的星宫大长老言语什么，后者也只能转向通羽上人，试图转移被奚落的尴尬。¤Ni Family Master just laughed out loud upon hearing this, then turned his head to chat with others, no longer speaking to the displeased Star Palace Grand Elder. The latter could only turn to Venerable Tongyu, trying to shift away from the embarrassment of being mocked.
是矣，倪家主可是对双修抱有兴趣？可惜我星宫秘术从不外传，不然倒是可以与倪家主探讨探讨。¤Yes, it's true. The Ni family head is interested in dual cultivation. Unfortunately, my star palace's secret arts are never disclosed to outsiders. Otherwise, it would have been possible to discuss with the Ni family head.
沃盥礼成！¤Wo Guan Li Cheng!
我已命人封锁天星城，且派人于城内搜索。心儿离去的时间还不长，料想也还未出城。¤I have ordered people to blockade Starsky City and sent others to search within the city. Little Xin hasn't been gone for long, I imagine she hasn't left the city yet.
冲虚散人只是象征性地动作几下便已了事。而林沐雪却是仔仔细细地将纤纤玉手清洁干净，方才缓慢地抽回。让冲虚等得是极不耐烦，但当着宾客又不便发作。¤The hermit Chong Xu only made a symbolic gesture before finishing. Meanwhile, Lin Muxue carefully cleaned her delicate jade hands before slowly retracting them. Chong Xu was extremely impatient while waiting, but he couldn't lose his temper in front of the guests.
冲虚散人只是象征性地动作几下便已了事。而林沐雪却是仔仔细细地将纤纤玉手清洁干净，方才缓慢地抽回。让冲虚等得是极不耐烦，但当着宾客又不便发作。¤Hermit Chong Xu only made a symbolic gesture and was done. However, Lin Muxue carefully cleaned her delicate jade hand before slowly retracting it. This made Chong Xu extremely impatient, but he couldn't show his frustration in front of the guests.
冲虚道友息怒，此次联姻，我们林家广邀同道，出了岔子自然也是颜面大损，怎会以此羞辱道友呢？¤Dear fellow Daoist Chongxu, please calm down. This marriage alliance was meant to be a friendly invitation to our Lin family's fellow Daoists. The misunderstanding that occurred has gravely damaged our reputation. We have no intention of humiliating our fellow Daoists in this way.
宾客随通羽上人的话语望向大殿入口。¤The guests followed Venerable Tongyu's words and looked towards the entrance of the main hall.
待你走到林家大殿门口时，却听到原本只是各位前辈平淡闲聊的大殿之中传出嘈杂的争吵声。¤When you arrive at the entrance of the Lin Family main hall, you hear chaotic arguing coming from the normally peaceful conversation of the seniors inside.
（这...看来倪兄猜对了，星宫和林家的联姻果然有些猫腻，只是不知究竟发生了什么。）¤It seems like Brother Ni guessed correctly, there's indeed some hidden motive behind the marriage alliance between Star Palace and Lin Family, but it's unclear what exactly happened.
哼，说的好听，但若是未抓到那丫头又当如何？¤Okay, I understand. I will come back before your exam day.
其右是林沐雪，她戴万载冰心石所铸繁复银色冠，以砗磲所产明珠为饰。又用灵气化扇，施然掩面。远而观之，如雾似幻，难窥真容；迫而察之，花容似玉，身段如娟。往下则着缟衣素袡，以红丝绣百鸟朝凤纹，上覆丝幜，尽显端庄。¤On the right is Lin Muxue, wearing a complex silver crown crafted from the 10,000 years ice heart stone and decorated with pearls produced by giant clams. She covers her face with a spirit energy transformed fan. From afar, she appears misty and dreamlike, making it difficult to see her true appearance. Upon closer inspection, her flower-like face is like jade and her figure is graceful. She wears a white robe with a birds and phoenixes embroidery in red silk, covered with a silk veil, showing her elegance.
好吧，其实是我发现了一个元婴妖兽的洞窟，当时有事在身没能摸清对方的底细，现在有了些空闲于是想找你一同探访一番。¤Okay...actually, I found a cave of nascent soul spirit beasts. I was occupied at the time and couldn't fully investigate their details. Now that I have some free time, I want to explore it with you.
{$Lin}你都元婴期了，怎么还是小孩子脾气。¤{$Lin}, you've already reached the Nascent Soul stage, yet you still have the temper of a child.
哼，就你喜欢嘚瑟，早晚不理你了。¤Hmph, you enjoy showing off, I'll ignore you sooner or later.
咳，星宫虽是精于双修一道，但从来都是提倡结侣自由，不为修为所缚，冲虚作为我的弟子，自然也是遵循此道。¤Ahem, although the Star Palace is adept at dual-cultivation, it has always advocated for the freedom to form partnerships, not being bound by cultivation levels. As my disciple, Chun Xu naturally follows this path.
啊？¤Ah?
通羽上人尚未说完，冲虚散人抢先凝灵气为刀，将瓠从中分一为二，倒苦酒于内。¤Venerable Tongyu had not finished speaking when Hermit Chong Xu first condensed spiritual energy into a knife, split the gourd in half, and poured bitter wine inside.
探讨就不用了，我只是好奇你徒儿为何找上林家的筑基后辈而已。¤No need to discuss, I'm just curious why your disciple has sought out the foundation building descendants of the Lin Family.
对席礼成！¤Toast to success!
无惑大长老，我曾听说星宫秘术以伉俪二人修为相近为佳，可是如此？¤Grand Elder Wu Huo, I have heard that for Star Palace's secret arts, it is ideal for the cultivation levels of a couple to be similar. Is this true?
殿内众人本是将注意力集中在结侣仪式上，满座大能竟无人留意你走入殿中。直到你出言阻止，这才齐刷刷的将注意力转移过来。¤The people in the palace originally concentrated their attention on the ceremony for pairing up, and no one paid attention to your entry into the hall. It was not until you spoke out that their attention was collectively redirected towards you.
嘿嘿，果然没白想着你好。¤Hey hey, as expected I didn't think wrong about you being good.
原本落座于此的公孙家、百里家和倪家家主都已是不知去向，殿中只剩林家和星宫的诸位长老，除此之外再无他人。¤The elders of the Gongsun, Baili, and Ni families who were originally seated here are now missing. Only the elders of the Lin family and Star Palace remain in the hall, and there is no one else.
原本落座于此的公孙家、百里家和倪家家主都已是不知去向，殿中只剩林家和星宫的诸位长老，除此之外再无他人。¤The elders of the Gongsun, Baili, and Ni families who were originally seated here are nowhere to be found. Only the elders of the Lin family and Star Palace remain in the hall, with no one else present.
奉盆侍从立即退下，又有其他侍从取龙凤纹漆案竖置殿中，置双色灵鹿肉于其上，使新人隔漆案相对而站。¤The attendants holding the tray immediately withdrew, while other attendants placed a lacquered desk with dragon and phoenix patterns in the middle of the hall, and placed the meat of the two-colored spirit deer on top of it. The couple stood facing each other on opposite sides of the desk.
{size=20}我在外人面前才不会这样。{/size}¤{size=20}I wouldn't behave like this in front of strangers.{/size}
取礼器！¤Get the ceremonial utensils!
诸位，吉时已至，星宫长老冲虚散人与林府大小姐结侣典礼正式开始！请新人上殿！¤Everyone, the auspicious time has arrived. The Star Palace Elder and the Hermit Chong Xu, together with the Lin House's young miss, shall proceed with the marriage ceremony. Please welcome the newlyweds!
两位新人背对而立，面向铜盆，以手入水，澡之。¤Two new people stood back to back, facing a copper basin. They dipped their hands in the water and washed.
说好听点你们是林家的长老，说不好听点你们就是空活百岁的老废物！¤In a nice way, you are the elders of the Lin family. In a harsh way, you are just useless old relics who are emptily living to be a hundred years old.
再有侍从上前取走余下鹿肉及盛器，且奉瓠与苦酒置于案上。¤Furthermore, the attendants came forward to take away the remaining deer meat and vessels, and presented a gourd and bitter wine on the table.
哼，闯我大典还满口胡言，饶你不得！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Hmph, daring to trespass my Great Encyclopedia and spouting nonsense, I won't spare you!!
（我还是先行离开吧，免得被卷入其中。）¤I'll leave first, to avoid getting caught up in it.
眼下只待冲虚散人和林沐雪各饮一半器中苦酒，再换器饮尽，通羽便是要宣布合卺礼成，两位新人也将在宁州诸位正道巨擘的见证下成为一对新人道侣。¤Currently waiting for Hermit Chong Xu and Lin Muxue to each drink half of the bitter wine in their respective cups, then switch cups and drink it all. When Tong Yue announces the completion of the marriage ceremony, the two new couples will become Daoist partners under the witness of the respected figures in Ningzhou's righteous path.
只见大殿左右有侍从持铜色盆而出，行至新人旁乃持盆站定。¤I saw attendants on the left and right of the main hall holding bronze basins walking towards the side of the new couple and standing still with the basins.
趁着他们忙着争吵，没有在意屋外的情况，你选择了悄然离去，只听见背后传来“秘宝”、“雪儿“等字眼。¤While they were busy arguing and not paying attention to the outside, you chose to quietly leave. All you heard from behind were words like "treasure" and "Little Snow".
我前些日子发现了一个元婴妖兽的洞窟，但当时有事在身没能摸清对方的底细，现在有了些空闲于是想找{$NickName}一同探访一番。¤A few days ago, I discovered a cave of nascent soul spirit beasts, but I was unable to fully investigate due to other priorities at the time. Now that I have some free time, I would like to invite {$NickName} to explore the cave with me.
哼，闯我大典，天大的事也饶你不得！受死！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Hmph, trespassing in our library. Even if it means a big deal, I won't spare you! Prepare to die!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
自礼成起，你二人当是福祸同担，不分...¤Since the completion of the ceremony, the two of you should share blessings and misfortunes, without distinction...
自礼成起，你二人当是福祸同担，不分...¤From the completion of the wedding ceremony, the two of you should share blessings and calamities, and not be separate.
行合卺礼！¤Bowing in unison ceremony!
其实是我发现了一个元婴妖兽的洞窟，当时有事在身没能摸清对方的底细，现在有了些空闲于是想找你一同探访一番。¤Actually, I discovered a cave inhabited by a nascent soul spirit beast. At the time, I was preoccupied and couldn't investigate its identity. Now that I have some free time, I want to explore it with you.
多有冒犯，还请前辈恕罪。但晚辈也是不得已才为之。¤Sorry for the offense, please forgive this senior. However, this junior had no choice but to do so.
不知{$Lin}说的秘境是？¤What is the secret realm that {$Lin} mentioned?
不知{$Lin}说的秘境是？¤Do you know what secret realm "{$Lin}" is talking about?
冲虚散人与林沐雪席地而坐，各自取案上灵鹿肉，分而食之。¤Hermit Chong Xu and Lin Muxue sat on the ground and each took a piece of spiritual deer meat from the table to eat.
你们林家怎么回事，居然能在这节骨眼上出岔子？此事若是流传出去，让我们星宫颜面何存！¤What's wrong with your Lin family? How can you make a mistake at such a critical moment? If this matter spreads, it would be a great humiliation for our Star Palace!
大胆！区区{$Var}修士，竟敢打断我冲虚散人的结侣大典！¤Bold! A mere cultivator like {$Var}, dares to interrupt my hermit Chong Xu's ceremony of marriage oath!
哈哈哈，有何不敢？你冲虚不过是一个找道侣还要找人行贿的登徒浪子而已。若不是...¤Hahaha, what's there to be afraid of? You, Chong Xu, are nothing more than a wandering scholar who must bribe others to find a dao companion. If it were not for...
在宾客的注目下，两人缓步上前，至殿上主座近旁方驻足。¤Under the gaze of the guests, the two of them walked slowly forward and halted near the main seat of the hall.
晚辈有一物要交给....¤My junior has something to hand over to...
哼，还是说正事吧。¤Hmph, let's focus on the main topic.
{vpunch=10,0.5}且慢！！！¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Hold on!!!
{vpunch=10,0.5}且慢！！！¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Hold on!!!
你来啦。我找到秘境第一时间都还想着你，对你不错吧？¤You're here. When I found the secret realm for the first time, I was still thinking of you. I've been kind to you, right?
来到林府大殿，俨然是一副张灯结彩的模样。与之前你和倪旭欣来观礼时别无二致。¤Arriving at the Lin House main hall, it was decorated festively with bright lights and decorations, just like when you and Ni Xuxin came to watch the ceremony before.
遵命。¤Understood
事到如今，只能出此下策了。¤At this point, I can only resort to this last measure.
对，若是直接去星宫，以我的修为不一定能见到冲虚散人。但若是以秘宝掩盖了气息从而假扮元婴修士上门拜访，更容易引起他的重视，从而达成目的。¤Yes, if I were to go directly to the Star Palace, with my cultivation level, it is uncertain whether I would be able to see Hermit Chong Xu. However, if I were to use a treasure to conceal my aura and pretend to be a Nascent Soul cultivator visiting him, it would be easier to attract his attention and achieve my goal.
倒也不是没有可能。¤It's not impossible either.
那如果请他出关，能否解决林家的危机？¤If we invite him out of seclusion, would he be able to solve the crisis of the Lin family?
心儿，你可是让我们一顿好找啊，全天星城的人都在陪你玩捉迷藏呢。¤Little Xin, you really made us search for you. Everyone in Starsky City was playing hide and seek with you.
首先天星城的收入较宁州其他几座大城还算正常，但相比之前也确实是衰减不少，林家难辞其咎。其次无惑大长老与冲虚师徒皆是元婴修为，而林家只有家主，影响力总归还是低了些。二者相合之下，我才会认为宫主会站在无惑大长老那边。¤Firstly, the income of Starsky City is relatively normal compared to the other major cities in Ningzhou. However, it has indeed declined significantly compared to before, and the Lin Family cannot be absolved of blame. Secondly, the Grand Elder of Wuhuo and his disciples are all in the Nascent Soul stage of cultivation, while the Lin Family only has their patriarch, and their influence is still relatively low. With these two factors combined, I believe that the Palace Lord would stand on the side of the Grand Elder of Wuho.
为了此事，苗矮长老还与冲虚散人过了十数招。但可能是冲虚刚入元婴，境界有些不稳，所以最后只是以苗矮长老轻伤收尾。¤In order to do this, Elder Miao Ai had a brief fight with the Hermit Chong Xu. However, perhaps due to Chong Xu's recent breakthrough to Nascent Soul stage, his state was unstable, so in the end, only a minor injury was inflicted on Elder Miao Ai.
为了此事，苗矮长老还与冲虚散人过了十数招。但可能是冲虚刚入元婴，境界有些不稳，所以最后只是以苗矮长老轻伤收尾。¤The elder Miao Ai exchanged roughly ten moves with the hermit Chong Xu over this matter. However, Chong Xu may have just reached the nascent soul stage and his cultivation was not stable enough, so in the end, only a minor injury was inflicted on Elder Miao Ai.
{$lin}不必客气，之前我坏了冲虚的奸计，恐怕他对付完林家，也是要找我麻烦。¤{$Lin}, no need to be polite. I ruined Chong Xu's plan before, and I'm afraid after dealing with the Lin family, he'll come after me too.
你带着玉简赶到长老堂，通羽上人正在与苗矮上人不知在聊些什么。¤You arrived at Elder Hall with the jade slip. Venerable Tongyu was conversing with Venerable Miaoai and it was unclear what they were discussing.
抱歉，耽搁了一会，辛苦心儿了。¤Sorry, I held you up for a bit. Little Xin, you've worked hard.
哼，你还想有下次！老三也是脾气好，找了你这么久还带来长老堂来等通羽处罚，要是我就先罚你面壁三年！¤Hmph, you think there'll be a next time! Lao San is also easy-going, but we've been searching for you for so long and brought you to the Elder Hall to receive punishment from Tongyu. If it were me, I'd make you face the wall for three years as your punishment!
她是我此前结识的一位星宫修士，据她自己所言，好像是星宫宫主的弟子。¤She is a star palace cultivator I met before, according to her own words, she seems to be a disciple of the Star Palace Master.
唔，倒是有一点让我很疑惑。¤Um, there is one thing that makes me very confused.
没什么，我仔细考虑了一下，还是有些欠妥。¤There's nothing much, I carefully considered it and there are still some shortcomings.
就目前的情形而言，恐怕宫主会站在无惑大长老那边。¤Based on current situation, I'm afraid the Palace Master will stand on the side of the Grand Elder Wu Huo.
正是。¤It is precisely.
（还是去别处找找吧。）¤(Still, let's go look elsewhere.)
若有其他办法，还是不要如此直接为好。¤If there are other ways, it's better not to be so straightforward.
此计的确不错。但正如心儿所说，宫主一向在乎星宫的颜面，{FirstName}道友若与冲虚散人在星宫中战斗，难免会被天星城中的其他修士察觉。若是传开，事后定会{color=#d0380a}引起宫主不悦{/color}。¤This plan is indeed good. However, as Little Xin said, the Palace Master cares about the reputation of Star Palace. If Fellow Daoist {FirstName} fights with Hermit Chong Xu in Star Palace, it is inevitable that other cultivators in Starsky City will notice. If it spreads, it will definitely {color=#d0380a}displease the Palace Master{/color}.
苗矮显然是有些不满，但还是把剩下的话吞了回去。¤Miao Ai obviously was dissatisfied but still swallowed the rest of the words.
竟敢趁我不在闯入我的居所，今日你难逃一死！¤How dare you break into my residence while I'm away. Today, you cannot escape death!
竟敢趁我不在闯入我的居所，今日你难逃一死！¤How dare you enter my residence while I'm away, today you cannot escape death!
未曾交换过。但据我所知，她极度反感双修采补之术。我们只需放出话去，天星城周遭有邪修滥用此类功法，定会引星道友过来。¤No prior exchange. However, to my knowledge, she strongly disagrees with the practice of dual cultivation and supplementing. We just need to spread the word that there are evil cultivators misusing such techniques around Starsky City, and Fellow Daoist Xing will definitely come.
但...但是...唔，既然你有信心，那就交给你了。¤But... but... umm, since you're confident, I'll leave it to you then.
见你已是下定决心，通羽上人也不再说什么，只是递给你一个满是感激的眼神。¤Seeing that you have made a firm decision, Venerable Tongyu doesn't say anything more but only gives you a grateful look.
行事诡越？{$lin}为何这么说？¤Actions are mysterious and elusive? Why does {$lin} say this?
而且据{$lin}刚才所说，冲虚看似境界不稳，所以我怀疑...¤Moreover, according to {$lin}'s earlier statement, although the Chongxu realm seems unstable, so I suspect...
还是那冲虚散人。本来这几十年没见他，还以为早就身死道消了。¤Still that hermit Chong Xu. Haven't seen him in decades, thought he might have died long ago.
通羽长老，你终于来了。我把你之前的分析都告诉{FirstName}{$NickName}了，但还忘了一些，嘿嘿。¤Elder Tongyu, you have finally arrived. I have already told {FirstName}{$NickName} about your previous analysis, but I forgot to mention some details, hehe.
闻言你也是随意找了个座位坐下，开始闭目养神，静候今日的正主来到。¤Upon hearing this, you casually found a seat and sat down, closed your eyes to rest, and waited in silence for the main character to arrive today.
{$lin}，何事找我？¤{$lin}, what brings you to me?
{$lin}，何事找我？¤{$lin}, why are you looking for me?
心儿的事先放着吧。{FirstName}小友，还是让我们来说说今天的正事吧。¤Let's put aside Xin'er's matter for now. Young friend {FirstName}, let's discuss today's important matter.
他一个{$lin}修士，能...¤He is a cultivator with a high level of {$lin} proficiency, capable of...
真是妙计，但...太让你冒险了...算上宫主，星宫可是有三位元婴强者坐镇...若是出了意外...¤It's really a clever plan, but... it puts you in too much danger... With the palace master included, there are three nascent soul experts in the Star Palace... If something goes wrong...
嗯，通羽长老之前说是与栖云真人有关。¤Well, Elder Tongyu previously said that it is related to Immortal Taoist Quyun.
嗯，那我们快行动吧。¤Uh, then let's move quickly.
嗯...虽然我没听说过她，但宫主一向行事诡越，不合常理，私下收了弟子倒也不奇怪。¤Hmm... Although I haven't heard of her, the palace lord has always been unpredictable in his actions and it's not surprising for him to take in disciples secretly.
几十年前，冲虚散人为寻求突破，甚至冒险贿赂栖云真人，以求结侣后用秘术双修晋入元婴境，此事被我破坏后，他反而轻描淡写地突破了。¤Several decades ago, Hermit Chong Xu, in search of a breakthrough, even risked bribing Immortal Taoist Quyun in order to join with a partner and use secret arts to advance into the Nascent Soul realm. After I disrupted this plan, he instead made a breakthrough with ease.
果然还是{$NickName}靠得住，嘻嘻。¤As expected, {$NickName} is reliable, hehe.
你带着玉简摸到长老堂，却发现此处空无一人，连原本常住于此的通羽上人也是不知去向。¤You reach the Elder Hall carrying the jade slip, but you find that there is no one there. Even Venerable Tongyu, who normally resides there, is nowhere to be found.
林沐心虽觉得你的话语有些奇怪，但总算还是没有追问。而是转而与你仔细商量。¤Although Lin Muxin found your words to be a bit strange, she chose not to pursue the matter and instead proceeded to carefully discuss it with you.
唔...嗯...以后你见到宫主本尊就知道了。¤Hmm...well...you'll know when you see the main body of the palace lord in the future.
唔...嗯...以后你见到宫主本尊就知道了。¤Mmm...ahh...you'll know when you see the Lord of the Palace in the future.
多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}，嘻嘻。¤Thank you, {FirstName}{$NickName}, hehe.
怀疑冲虚为突破使用了邪术！¤Suspected using evil techniques to break through the Void Stage!
哈哈哈，这才是林姑娘嘛。¤Hahaha, this is Lin girl.
哈哈哈，这才是林姑娘嘛。¤Hahaha, this is Lin girl.
出发前我还想借{$lin}的秘宝一用。¤Before departing, I still want to borrow {$lin} treasure to use it.
这个法子好，但骗她过来的话，会不会引她反感？我们还要找她帮忙呢。¤This method is good, but if we trick her into coming, will it cause her to be disgusted? We still need her help.
我没有把{FirstName}道友当外人！只...只是感觉我和林家亏欠你的太多...¤I do not treat Fellow Daoist {FirstName} as an outsider! It's just...I feel like the Lin family and I owe you too much...
{FirstName}道友请说。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, please speak.
我就说嘛，不然那老贼都元婴了，怎么还和金丹期的苗矮长老实力差不多。¤I told you so, otherwise how could that old thief still have the same strength as the elder Miao Aiai who is at the golden core stage, even though he has already reached the nascent soul stage.
等等！{vpunch=10,0.5}你身上有我房间禁制留下的气息！¤Wait a moment! {vpunch=10,0.5} There's a trace of the restriction seal I left in my room on your body!
但无惑真人作为冲虚散人的师父，没能有所察觉倒还挺奇怪的。¤But it's quite strange that Paragon Confusionless, as Hermit Chong Xu's master, didn't notice anything.
哎，好吧。谢谢{FirstName}道友，至少让我有了解决问题的方向。¤Ah, okay... Thank you, {FirstName} fellow daoist, at least it gives me a direction to solve the problem.
通羽上人只是点点头后平淡地回复了栖云真人一句，而后便将话语转向林沐心。¤Venerable Tongyu only nodded and replied to Immortal Taoist Quyun plainly with a sentence before turning the conversation towards Lin Muxin.
只是不管怎么说，如今无惑师徒一系有两位元婴修士，我父亲又是刚入死关，林家也只能任他师徒二人摆布...¤Only thing is, no matter what, currently the WuHuo sect has two Nascent Soul cultivators among their disciples, while my father has just entered a critical period. The Lin family can only let these two cultivators call the shots...
哎，这还得从上次的事件说起。虽然父亲最后强行出关解决了问题，但也导致他修为受损。在我晋入金丹期后，他在机缘巧合之下在外寻得一处秘境，便是再次闭关。¤Ah, this needs to be traced back to the previous incident. Although my father ultimately forcefully left seclusion to resolve the problem, it also led to damage to his cultivation. After I advanced to the golden core stage, he coincidentally found a secret realm while outside and went into seclusion again.
为何？¤Why?
后者正要开口再训斥林沐心一番，通羽上人也是及时开口，苗矮上人这才罢了。¤The latter was about to scold Lin Muxin again, but Venerable Tongyu timely spoke up, and Venerable Miaoai stopped only then.
林沐心见你一副好奇的样子，不知为何脸庞飞红，赶紧将话题引回正事上。¤Lin Muxin sees your curious look and blushes for some unknown reason. She quickly redirects the conversation back to the main topic.
之前他虽仗着大权在握中饱私囊，但确实精于此道。自他被父亲判罚思过一甲子后，天星城也逐渐从鼎盛下滑，这才让冲虚散人抓住把柄，上门罪责林家治理不力，且借此欲大幅削弱林家的灵石份额。¤He was skilled in this field despite his abuse of power to enrich himself. After he was punished by his father for a century, Starsky City gradually declined. This gave the Hermit Chong Xu an opportunity to hold Lin family accountable for their ineffective management, and to significantly reduce their share of the spirit stones.
原来如此，希望这秘宝能帮你骗过他。¤So that's how it is, I hope this treasure can help you deceive him.
如果什么？¤What if?
那道友可有计划？¤Does that fellow Daoist have a plan?
通羽上人显然是一直在用神识关注着林府，看到你进来只是点点头，并没有说什么。而苗矮上人顺着通羽上人的目光看到有人未经允许闯入长老堂，站起身就准备发作一番。¤Venerable Tongyu was clearly using his soul sense to monitor the Lin house, and upon seeing you enter, only nodded without saying anything. Venerable Miaoai followed Venerable Tongyu's gaze and noticed someone had intruded into the Elder Hall without permission, and stood up, prepared to reprimand them.
以冲虚老贼的性子肯定会愤怒难抑，但之后要怎么办呢？¤Given the temperament of Senior Chongxu, he will surely be unable to contain his anger. But what should we do after?
冲虚散人不是好不容易突破元婴了嘛，那我作为老朋友自然是要去“恭贺”他一番。想必他见到我后，也是会愤怒难抑，此时我只需顺势激他出手。¤Hermit Chong Xu finally broke through to Nascent Soul, it must have been a hard journey for him. As an old friend, I naturally have to go and "congratulate" him. I believe he will be enraged upon seeing me, and I just need to provoke him to make a move.
何出此言？¤What makes you say that?
对于星宫来说再得一位元婴长老本是好事，但这冲虚应该是还在记恨林家，一归来就要找我们麻烦。¤For Star Palace, having another Nascent Soul Elder would be a good thing, but with this Chong Xu, who still holds a grudge against Lin Family, returning and looking for trouble with us as soon as he returns.
闻言，你心领神会地拿出玉简就要交给通羽上人。¤Upon hearing this, you understood and took out the jade scroll to hand it over to Venerable Tongyu.
唔，我这还有几颗丹药，也一并拿去吧。那冲虚散人毕竟是元婴实力，若是{$NickName}难敌这老贼，此丹应该能派上用场。¤Ah, I also have a few pills here, let me give them to you as well. Hermit Chong Xu is after all at the Nascent Soul level, if {$NickName} finds it difficult to defeat him, these pills should come in handy.
心儿知错了，心儿下次不敢了。¤Little Xin knows she made a mistake and won't dare to do it again next time.
林沐心气鼓鼓地别过头去，不再理会你。但你能感觉到她还在悄悄地用余光留意你的神情。¤Lin Muxin pouted and turned her head away from you, ignoring you. However, you could feel that she was still secretly paying attention to your expressions with the corner of her eye.
林沐心气鼓鼓地别过头去，不再理会你。但你能感觉到她还在悄悄地用余光留意你的神情。¤Lin Muxin pouted and turned her head away, ignoring you. But you could feel her secretly paying attention to your expression with the corner of her eye.
唔...这个...应该不至于吧...¤Um…this…probably not, right…
但前些日子我突破到金丹前期后，父亲恰巧在外寻得一宝地闭关。这冲虚散人又是冒了出来，甚至还突破到了元婴初期。¤But just a few days ago, after I made a breakthrough into the early stage of Golden Core, my father happened to find a precious place to cultivate. And then this hermit Chong Xu appeared, even breaking through into the early stage of Nascent Soul.
不用担心，星道友可不是在意这些的人。要知道第一次见面时，我可是...咳，总之，不会有问题的，放心吧。¤Don't worry, Fellow Daoist Xing doesn't care about these things. You should know that when we first met, I...cough, anyway, there won't be any issues, so rest assured.
大长老，栖云把二小姐带回来了。¤Grand Elder, Qiyun has brought back Miss Er.
{FirstName}道友刚才与心儿是说到宫主了吧。¤Did Fellow Daoist {FirstName} just mention the Palace Master to Little Xin?
苗矮，坐下。{FirstName}小友也是受老夫所邀前来商议要事，不得无礼。¤Miǎo ǎi, please sit down. {FirstName} young friend, you were also invited by this old man to discuss important matters, so please show some respect.
那，莫不是林家被冲虚散人抓到了什么把柄？¤So, could it be that the Lin family has been caught by Hermit Chong Xu over something?
栖云和心儿的捉迷藏也差不多该结束了，小友先休息一会吧。¤The game of hide-and-seek between Qiyun and Xin'er is almost over, young friend can take a break for a while.
如...如果...你为了林家的事受伤，即...即便...我...即便是我也会内心难安的！¤If... if you were to get hurt for the sake of the Lin family, even... even if... it's me, I would still feel uneasy in my heart!
林沐心闻言也只是装作委屈地吐了吐舌头，却被苗矮上人瞧在眼里。¤Lin Muxin only pretended to act aggrieved when she heard the words and stuck out her tongue, but Venerable Miaoai noticed.
呵呵，接下来由老夫来为{FirstName}道友说明一番吧。¤Hehe, next, let me explain to Fellow Daoist {FirstName}.
但这些只是猜测，并没有具体的证据，恐怕无法说服宫主。¤However, these are just speculations without any concrete evidence. It may not be enough to convince the palace master.
哼，去吧，现在就去，最好跟冲虚同归于尽，这样就既能达成目标也不用听你损我了。¤Hmph, go ahead, go now, it's best if you also perish with Chong Xu, this way we can achieve the goal and I won't have to listen to you insulting me.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，你来了。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, you have arrived.
之后我就顺势激他出手即可。¤Afterwards, I just needed to provoke him into making a move.
嗯...确实不无可能。据我所知，修士突破至元婴境时要直面心魔，冲虚散人此前在林府的莽撞表现是有些遭心魔扰乱，道心未恢复的症状。当时直觉此人突破后对林家的恨意愈加深切，但不知缘由，经道友提起后再一想便是了然。¤Hmm... it's indeed possible. As far as I know, when cultivators breakthrough to the Nascent Soul realm, they have to face their demon heart head-on. Hermit Chong Xu's reckless behavior in the Lin House before was due to symptoms of his unsettled Dao heart after being disturbed by his demon heart. At that time, I had a strong intuition that the hatred towards the Lin Family would only intensify after this person's breakthrough, but I didn't know why. It wasn't until my fellow Daoist mentioned it that everything became clear.
这么关心别人可不像{$lin}，我都差点以为眼前的是林沐雪姑娘了哈哈哈。¤This concern for others doesn't seem like {$lin}. I almost thought the person in front of me was the girl Lin Muxue, haha.
最终决定把传播消息的任务交给林沐心，而你则是选择在林府休息几日，等候星铃儿找上门来。¤Final decision is to assign the task of spreading the message to Lin Muxin, while you choose to rest at Lin House for a few days, waiting for Star Bell to come knocking.
什么叫算这样，我可是有根据的，就是...就是...哼，反正我肯定是对的！¤What do you mean it's calculated like this? I have a basis, it's... it's...hmph, anyway I'm definitely right!
哦？你是想在去星宫的时候掩盖自己的气息？¤Oh? Are you trying to conceal your aura when going to Star Palace?
哦？你是想在去星宫的时候掩盖自己的气息？¤Oh? Are you looking to conceal your aura when going to the Star Palace?
宫主在百余年前到达元婴大圆满境后，虽说会在家主及无惑大长老的协助下处理部分宫内事务，但更多时间还是在闭关。¤After the palace lord achieved the completion of the nascent soul stage over a hundred years ago, although he would handle some of the internal affairs of the palace with the help of the clan lord and the grand elder with no confusion, he spent more time in seclusion.
此计不错。但正如心儿所说，宫主一向在乎星宫的颜面，{FirstName}道友若与冲虚散人在星宫中战斗，难免会被天星城中的其他修士察觉。若是传开，事后定会{color=#d0380a}引起宫主不悦{/color}。¤This plan is not bad. But as Little Xin said, the Palace Master has always cared about the face of the Star Palace. If Fellow Daoist {FirstName} were to fight Hermit Chong Xu in the Star Palace, it is inevitable that other cultivators in Starsky City will notice. If this spreads, it will definitely {color=#d0380a}displease the Palace Master{/color}.
但...这种状态的冲虚散人对你肯定不会手下留情的...若是...¤However, the hermit Chong Xu in this status will definitely not show you mercy... If...
你有那个什么星...星铃儿的传音符么？¤Do you have the sound talisman for that star... star bell thing?
真是妙计，但...太让你冒险了...算上宫主，星宫可是有三位元婴强者坐镇...而你都还没到元婴期...¤It's a great plan, but...it's too risky for you...including the palace master, there are three nascent soul experts in Star Palace...and you haven't even reached the nascent soul stage yet...
冲虚散人刚突破元婴，我以此为由头上门“恭贺”他一番。之后我再寻觅良机透漏自己曾插手联姻一事。¤I visited the hermit Chong Xu to offer my congratulations on his recent breakthrough to nascent soul. Afterward, I searched for an opportunity to reveal my involvement in arranging a marriage alliance.
冲虚散人刚突破元婴，我以此为由头上门“恭贺”他一番。之后我再寻觅良机透漏自己曾插手联姻一事。¤The Hermit Chong Xu just broke through to the Nascent Soul stage, so I used this opportunity to visit and "congratulate" him. Afterwards, I will search for an opportune moment to reveal that I had once intervened in his marriage arrangement.
那你有没有想到什么计划呀。¤So have you thought of any plans?
星宫宫主虽是处深关之中，但闭关之人对战斗造成的灵气波动甚是敏感，可以籍此引她出关。¤Although the Star Palace Master is in seclusion in a deep realm, those in closed-door cultivation are sensitive to fluctuations of spiritual energy caused by battles, allowing them to use this as a means to draw her out.
而十余年前宫主便已是入关，至今未出关，也无人知晓何时会出关。所以宫主更可能并不知道冲虚散人此次的所为。¤Ten years ago, the Sect Master had already entered seclusion and has yet to emerge. No one knows when he will come out. Therefore, it is more likely that the Sect Master is unaware of the actions of the Hermit Chong Xu this time.
他看到你一个{$lin}修士却大刺刺地坐在这里，显然也是有些奇怪，但终于还是没有询问什么。¤He saw that you, a {$lin} cultivator, were sitting here with an air of importance, which was obviously a bit strange, but he finally didn't ask anything.
我怎么可能会把{$NickName}当外人！只...只是感觉我和林家亏欠你的太多...¤How could I treat {$NickName} like an outsider! It's just...I feel like the Lin family and I owe you too much...
辛苦了。¤Thank you for your hard work.
我也不知道啦！宫主她就是对林家还不错的，肯定不会站在冲虚老贼那边！¤I don't know either! The palace lord has a decent relationship with the Lin family, so she definitely won't stand with the ruthless old thief of Chongxu!
没事，通羽长老来得正好。¤It's okay, Elder Tong Yu arrived just in time.
星铃儿？那是谁？我怎么没听说过。¤Star bell? Who is that? Why haven't I heard of them?
星铃儿？那是谁？我怎么没听说过。¤Star Bell? Who is that? Why haven't I heard of them?
嗯，但我们可以以此为借口唤宫主出关。宫主一向在乎星宫的名誉，定是会深入调查此事。只是...冲虚散人恐怕会密切关注林家人，不让我们有机会接触宫主...¤Okay, but we can use this as an excuse to summon the Palace Master out of seclusion. The Palace Master has always been concerned about the reputation of Star Palace and will surely conduct a thorough investigation into this matter. However, Hermit Chong Xu is likely to keep a close eye on the Lin family, preventing us from having the opportunity to contact the Palace Master.
但，如果...¤However, if...
距上次探访冥蛛洞窟已是半月有余，林沐心被偷袭时留下的神识创伤已是近乎痊愈。¤It has been over half a month since I last visited the Dark Spider Cave. The wounds from Lin Muxin's sneak strike have almost fully healed.
距上次探访冥蛛洞窟已是半月有余，林沐心被偷袭时留下的神识创伤已是近乎痊愈。¤Since the last visit to the Dark Spider's cave, more than half a month has passed. The damage to Lin Muxin's soul sense from the sneak strike has almost healed.
这些日子你因无其他要事，便留在林府作陪，虽说是被林沐心趁机呼来喝去，但回怼时的她反应也是让你乐在其中。¤These days, you stayed at Lin House to accompany Lin Muxin without any other important matters. Although she took the chance to boss you around, you enjoyed it when you fought back against her.
这些日子你因无其他要事，便留在林府养伤。一开始林沐心还耐着性子照顾你，但几天过后她终于是怀疑你在把她当下人使唤，而撂了挑子。丢给你两个林家的炼气期弟子后，就去为林家和星宫的事务操心了。¤These days, as you had no other matter, you stayed in Lin House to recover. At first, Lin Muxin patiently took care of you, but after a few days, she started to suspect that you were treating her like a servant and left. She assigned two Lin Family's Qi Refining disciples to assist you and went to handle Lin Family and Star Palace's affairs.
（应该差不多了，去外面看看吧。）¤It should be about right now, let's go outside and have a look.
距上次探访冥蛛洞窟已是半月有余，你为救林沐心留下的神识创伤也是已经痊愈。¤It has been over half a month since the last exploration of the dark spider cave, and the soul sense injury you sustained while saving Lin Muxin has also fully healed.
而你则是觉得林家弟子过于无趣，找了个理由将两人支开后，每天在林府清修。¤However, you found the disciples of the Lin family to be too boring and, using an excuse, separated the two of them and spent your days in quiet cultivation at the Lin house.
仙师有何吩咐？{w}{w=0.5}¤What are your orders, Immortal Master?
长老会是林家的权力枢纽，家族里大大小小的事情都必须经过长老会的首肯。¤The elders' council is the power hub of the Lin family, and all matters, big or small, must be approved by the elders' council within the family.
仙长平日里自然可以随意出入，但今日长老会正商议要事，还请仙长暂且回避，以免引起不必要的麻烦。¤In normal days, Xianzhang can come and go as they please, but today the Elders' Meeting is discussing important matters, so please excuse the Xianzhang for the time being to avoid unnecessary trouble. Note
（这家丁说不定是林家某位长老特意派来监视我的...我得想个办法把他支开）¤This servant might have been specially sent by an elder from the Lin family to monitor me... I have to come up with a way to get rid of him.
大长老有金丹后期修为，实力仅在家主一人之下，同时也统管整个长老会。¤Grand Elder has cultivation at the late golden core stage, with strength second only to the head of the family. He also manages the entire Elder Council.
二长老有金丹初期修为，主管家族弟子培养，功法传承等内事，对家族晚辈向来十分严厉。¤The second elder has cultivation in the early golden core stage and is responsible for the internal affairs of training disciples, inheriting techniques, etc. He is known to be very strict with younger generations of the clan. He acts as a steward for the clan.
三老有金丹初期修为，主管家族产业，账务以及其他商业往来。¤Three elders have early golden core cultivation. They are responsible for managing the family's assets, accounting, and other business dealings.
听说这天星城里也有个挺大规模的坊市，常常有各地的修士来此交易。¤I heard that there's a pretty large marketplace in Starsky City, where cultivators from various regions often come to trade.
仙长说是的，咱们天星城的坊市那可是远近闻名，一年四季都人来人往的。¤The Immortal Master said yes, our Starsky City's Marketplace is famous far and wide, with people coming and going all year round.
对对对，特别是你们天星城那特产的醉仙酿，传说是以灵泉所酿，香醇无比。¤Exactly, especially the special product of your Starsky City, the Zuixian wine, which is said to be brewed with spirit spring and has an incomparable fragrance.
我来天星城这几日倒还未曾去尝试如此美味，实在是遗憾。¤I haven't had the chance to try such delicious food during the few days I've been in Starsky City, which is a pity.
反正今日你们长老会在议事，我在府中待着也是闲来无事，正好去那坊市逛逛。¤In any case, you elders will be discussing matters today, and I have nothing to do at home, so I'll just go to the marketplace for a look.
这...可是长老交代...¤This... is what the Elder instructed...
既然兄弟你有难为之处，那我也不给你添麻烦了。¤Since you, brother, are in a difficult situation, I won't trouble you any further.
不如这样，这50灵石呢你先收着，替我去那坊市里买上几壶好酒来，多下来的钱就当赏你的辛苦费。¤How about this, you keep these 50 spirit stones for now and go to the marketplace to buy some good wine for me. Any extra money can be considered as a reward for your hard work.
那家丁不过一介凡人，何曾见过这么一大笔的灵石，顿时面露喜色的点头应允，收下了灵石便往府外走去了...¤That servant was just a mortal, never having seen such a large amount of spirit stones before. He immediately showed a pleased expression and nodded in agreement, taking the spirit stones and walking out of the mansion.
如此一来，我也就可以安心在这府内待着了，可好？¤In this way, I can also stay in this mansion with peace of mind. Is that good?
怎么，难道这便是林府的待客之道么？¤How, could this be the Lin house's way of treating guests?
我可是你们二小姐的朋友，你敢这般阻拦我的正常活动，等二小姐怪罪下来，你担待得起么？¤I am a friend of your second miss. Do you dare to obstruct my normal activities? When second miss holds you accountable, can you bear the consequences?
仙...仙长息怒，小的不敢...¤The immortal leader suppresses his anger, this little one dare not...
仙长言重了，若仙长执意要出门，还请待小的像长老禀报一番。¤Elder, your word is heavy. If you insist on going out, please wait for me to report to the elder.
哼！¤I'm not going to fall that easily.
（不好...若是惊动了长老们，恐怕反而坏了二小姐的安排...）¤Not good...if we alarm the elders, it may disrupt the Young Miss's plan instead.
算...算了，倒也不必如此兴师动众，我回屋休息便是。¤Never mind, there's no need to make such a fuss. I'll just go rest in my room.
仙师还有何吩咐？¤Is there anything else, Immortal Master?
（这家丁可能已经对我有了警觉...还要强行出门倒是打草惊蛇了...）¤(This servant might already be aware of my intentions... forcefully going out might only stir up trouble...)
（也不知天星城中有何变故，还是于此休息一番，调整好状态准备应对吧，就不出门闲逛了。）¤(Not knowing what changes have occurred in Starsky City, I'll rest here for a while and adjust my status to prepare for any situations. I won't go out for a stroll.)
（也不知天星城中有何变故，还是于此休息一番，调整好状态准备应对吧，就不出门闲逛了。）¤(Unknown what has happened in Starsky City, so I'll rest here for a while, adjust my status, and prepare for any situation. I won't go out for a walk.)
夜半时分你正准备熄灯时，房间的衣柜里传来窸窸窣窣的声音。¤At midnight, just as you were about to turn off the lights and go to bed, you heard rustling sounds coming from inside the closet in your room.
大半夜的...应该不是闹鬼吧？¤In the middle of the night... it shouldn't be ghosts, right?
不管三七二十一，你拿起床边的木棍拉开柜门就是一顿乱舞。¤Regardless of anything, you pick up the wooden stick next to your bed and pull open the cabinet door to begin a chaotic dance.
哎呀！！！！¤Oh no!!!
你心下一惊，赶紧把棍子扔到一边装作无事发生的样子。¤Your heart trembled, and quickly threw the stick aside, pretending nothing happened.
就算我来得晚了点你也不至于记恨成这样吧！¤Even if I came a bit late, you wouldn't hold a grudge like this, would you?
算了...先不说这个，你有什么收获吗？¤Forget it... let's not talk about that for now. What did you gain from it?
喀啦——¤Kā lā
衣柜门被猛地一下推开，你吓了一跳，借着烛光勉强看清来人。¤The wardrobe door was suddenly pushed open, startling you. With the help of the candlelight, you could barely make out the person who entered.
哎呦，挖地道可累死我了！¤Ouch, digging tunnels is exhausting!
地道？¤Authentic?
我把屋子里原来的暗道通到客房的衣柜里来了，先不说这个，你有什么收获吗？¤I've connected the original hidden passage in the room to the guest room's closet. But let's put that aside for now, did you find anything useful?
林家与星宫的联姻恐怕有内情。¤The marriage alliance between the Lin family and Star Palace may have some hidden motives.
你把白天听到的内容向林沐心复述一遍。¤You repeat to Lin Muxin what you heard during the day.
听你的意思，长老堂内部对这件事情也还存在分歧。苗矮与栖云长老的态度，也很是可疑...¤According to your meaning, there are still differences within the elder hall regarding this matter. The attitude of Elder Miao Ai and Elder Qiyun is also very suspicious...
{color=#d0380a}通羽{/color}长老可能知道些内情，他一贯疼爱我，从他这里说不定可以获得一些有用的信息。¤Elder {color=#d0380a}Tong Yu{/color} may know some inside information. He has always cherished me, and perhaps I can gain some useful information from him.
你们又聊了一阵，从林沐心口中你得知林家大哥如今在外历练，而大姐也被严加看管，无法接近。想要弄清原委，救出大姐，便只有靠你们两人自己想办法了。¤You chatted for a while longer, and from Lin Muxin's mouth, you learned that the eldest brother of the Lin family is currently going through trials outside, while the eldest sister is under strict monitoring and cannot be approached. If you want to find out the truth and rescue the eldest sister, you can only rely on the two of you to come up with a solution.
你们简单地制定了计划，约定等弄清楚更多的消息后，再做打算。¤You easily made the plan, agreeing to make further plans after getting more information.
呼，这临时挖的地道走起来可真费劲。¤Phew, walking through this hastily dug tunnel is really exhausting.
白天我房外的家丁可能是被派来监视我的，为了防止打草惊蛇，我便一直待在屋内没有出去。¤During the day, the household servants outside my room may have been sent to monitor me. In order to avoid alerting them, I stayed inside without going out.
你把白天和家丁对话的内容向林沐心复述了一遍。¤You relayed the conversation between the daytime and the housekeeper to Lin Muxin.
哼，若没些古怪，他们如此防备着你做什么。这次和星宫联姻的背后肯定还有什么我们不知道的隐情！¤Hmph, if there's nothing strange, why are they so guarded against you? There must be some hidden agenda behind the alliance with Star Palace this time that we don't know about!
夜半时分，衣柜后又传来“咚咚咚”的敲门声，你连忙拉开柜门...¤At midnight, knocking sounded again from behind the wardrobe. You quickly opened the door...
怎么样，你今天有没有什么新的发现？¤How was it, did you make any new discoveries today?
你把今天和通羽长老对话的内容向林沐心复述了一遍。¤You recounted the conversation you had with Elder Tongyu to Lin Muxin today.
你把今天和苗矮长老对话的内容向林沐心复述了一遍。¤You relayed the conversation you had with Elder Miao Ai today to Lin Muxin.
原来通羽长老早就知道我们在调查此事了...可他现在到底是什么态度呢？¤The Elder Tongyu had known that we were investigating this matter long ago... but what is his current attitude?
长老会里就数苗矮长老最固执死板，从小我就讨厌他了！¤In the Elder Council, Elder Miao Ai is the most stubborn and rigid. I have disliked him since I was young!
原来如此...那你心中目前有没有怀疑的对象？¤So that's how it is... Do you currently have any suspects in your heart?
通羽长老统管长老会，若他真有心阻止，又怎么会说服不了其它长老？¤Elder Tongguan is in charge of the Elder Council. If he truly intends to stop it, how could he not persuade the other elders?
不可能，通羽长老素来疼爱我和姐姐，我不相信他会做出这种事。¤Impossible, Elder Tongyu has always loved and cared for me and my sister. I don't believe he would do something like this.
苗矮长老态度最为强硬，如今也是他在严加看管大姐，他的嫌疑最大。¤Elder Miao Ai has the most stern attitude, and now he is also the one keeping strict watch over the eldest sister. He has the greatest suspicion.
你说的有些道理，但细细想来，以苗矮长老的性格而言，这次的态度倒是没有什么可奇怪的。¤Your argument makes some sense, but upon careful consideration, given Elder Miao's personality, there is nothing particularly surprising about his attitude this time.
我还听说，一百多年前，苗矮长老亲手把自己的大女儿也嫁入了星宫。¤I also heard that over a hundred years ago, Elder Miao Ai personally married off his eldest daughter to the Star Palace.
栖云长老原本是主管家族财务外事的，此番却对你们的婚事态度如此重视，他最为可疑。¤Elder Qiyun was originally in charge of the family's finance and external affairs, but this time he attached such great importance to your wedding, making him the most suspicious one.
我和你的想法一样！所以趁着今日栖云长老不在府内，我偷偷调查了家族的账本，果然发现有很多明显的漏洞。¤I have the same idea as you! So today, while Elder Qiyun was not in the mansion, I secretly investigated the family's accounts and found many obvious loopholes.
我反倒觉得栖云长老最为可疑，他原本是主管家族财务外事的，这次对我们的婚事如此上心，就有些反常。¤I actually feel that Elder Qiyun is the most suspicious one. He was originally in charge of the family's financial and foreign affairs, but he is unusually concerned about our marriage this time.
所以趁着今日栖云长老不在府内，我偷偷调查了家族的账本，果然发现有很多明显的漏洞。¤Therefore, taking advantage of Elder Qiyun's absence from the residence today, I secretly investigated the family's accounts and indeed found many obvious loopholes.
要是等爹爹出关发现此事，栖云长老定然要受重罚。¤If Father returns from seclusion and discovers this, Elder Qiyun will certainly be heavily punished.
原来如此...所以他很有可能就是因为这个才与星宫的长老私下里做了什么交易。¤So that's how it is... He is very likely to have made a trade with the elder of the Star Palace privately because of this.
不管是不是这样，总之有账本在手，我们拿着证据与各位长老当面对峙，看他还如何狡辩！¤Regardless of whether it is true or not, as long as we have the account book in hand, we can confront the elders with evidence face-to-face and see how they try to argue their way out of it!
由于知道事情的大致真相，你也没担心太多，只是打算就此在客房中修炼几天。¤Due to knowing the general truth of the matter, you weren't too worried and only plan to cultivate in the guest room for a few days.
(现在还不是休息的时候。）¤(It's not time to rest yet.)
你眼看林家姐妹并未急着提到结果，便只是饮酒赏花，闲聊几句无关的话题而已。偶尔远离清修，又有佳人在侧，倒也称得上是惬意。¤You watched as the Lin family sisters drank and appreciated flowers without mentioning the result, casually chatting about unrelated topics. Occasionally taking a break from practice, with a beautiful woman by your side, you could also call it a pleasure.
哼，瞧你装的，越阶挑战元婴修士都成举手之劳了。要不是打不过你，我一定要消消你的气焰。¤Hmph, look at you pretending, even challenging a nascent soul cultivator is as easy as raising a hand. If it weren't for not being able to beat you, I would definitely crush your arrogance.
倒是林家姐妹来到你近旁坐下。料是星宫宫主已经了解完事情经过，整个事件也是尘埃落定罢。¤The Lin sisters sat down beside you. It seems that the Star Palace Master has already understood the situation, and the whole event has come to an end.
（孤身苦修是为何么？）¤(Why is cultivating alone so difficult?)
倒是林家姐妹来到你近旁坐下。料是星宫宫主已经了解完事情经过，整个事件也是尘埃落定罢。¤The Lin sisters came to sit beside you. It seems that the Star Palace Master has already learned the details of what happened and the whole incident has also come to an end.
你眼看林沐心并未急着提到结果，便只是饮酒赏花，闲聊几句无关的话题而已。偶尔远离清修，又有佳人在侧，倒也称得上是惬意。¤You see that Lin Muxin wasn't in a rush to mention the result, just drinking and enjoying the flowers, chatting about unrelated topics. Occasionally stepping away from meditation and having a beautiful lady by your side could also be considered pleasurable.
老头子，若是你处于瓶颈之下久不得突破，又寿元将尽，会像冲虚一般不择手段么？¤Old man, if you were stuck in a bottleneck for too long and unable to make a breakthrough, and your lifespan is about to end, would you resort to any means like in Cultivation Chat Group?
拜见过长老后，倪旭欣便是被其父倪振东留在了大殿里，只留你一人在林府闲逛。¤Upon meeting with the elder, Ni Xuxin was left in the main hall by her father Ni Zhendong, leaving only you to wander around Lin House.
不过是举手之劳而已，{$Lin}不必客气。¤Just a small matter, {$Lin} need not be so polite.
闲聊许久后，林沐心终于是按捺不住，主动提到你帮林家解除这次危机的回报。¤After chatting for a while, Lin Muxin couldn't hold it any longer and took the initiative to mention the reward for helping the Lin family resolve this crisis.
闻言，你装作一副身受重伤的样子连连痛哼，就差没真口吐鲜血了。¤Upon hearing this, you feigned a seriously wounded expression and repeatedly groaned in pain, almost simulating vomiting blood. 
哪呢哪呢，我去帮你拿疗伤的...好啊你，连我都敢骗，看我不把你打成重伤，这两年就留在林府疗伤吧！¤Where is it, where is it? I'll help you get the healing medicine... Okay, you dare to lie to even me. Watch me not leave you with serious injuries. Stay in Lin House for the next two years to heal!
哎哟，冲虚散人好像在我体内下了暗劲，{$Lin}快帮我看看。¤Ah, it seems like Hermit Chong Xu has infused some dark energy into my body. Okay...{$Lin}, please take a look.
多谢{$NickName}出面，若不是你，此次危机恐是要让林家费尽心力，甚至让父亲修为再次受损才能解决。所以通羽长老让我吧这个储物袋交给你，算是林家的一点心意。¤Thank you, {$NickName}, for stepping in. If not for you, the Lin family would have had to go to great lengths to solve this crisis, and it may have even caused my father's cultivation to suffer again. Therefore, Elder Tongyu asked me to give you this storage pouch as a small token of appreciation from the Lin family.
不似你印象中凡俗婚礼的热闹，林家内只有十数个修士三两成群的交谈着，数十个侍从忙碌着，再就是大殿中几个你看不出修为深浅的前辈。¤Unlike the lively atmosphere of a mundane wedding in your impression, within the Lin Family, only a group of ten or so cultivators were chatting in small groups, while dozens of attendants were busy attending to their duties. There were also several seniors in the main hall whose cultivation level was difficult to discern.
看着打作一团的你二人，林沐雪也是在一旁掩嘴轻笑。¤As the two of you fought in a mess, Lin Muxue couldn't help but cover her mouth and laugh on the side.
回到林府后，星宫宫主便是向通羽上人及林沐心等人了解情况。而你却觉得该帮的忙都已是帮完，再无兴致旁听，反倒是要一壶仙酿，在林家诸位修士的恭敬中往那辰溪薇亭去了。¤After returning to Lin House, the Star Palace Master immediately inquired about the situation from Venerable Tongyu and Lin Muxin. However, you felt that you had already done enough and had no interest in listening anymore. Instead, you went to Chengxi Wei Pavilion with a pot of fairy brew, amidst the respectful Lin family cultivators.
看着打作一团的你二人，林沐雪也是在一旁掩嘴轻笑。¤Watching the two of you fighting in a mess, Lin Muxue also laughed lightly while covering her mouth.
哦，主位应该是给林家家主留的吧，只是不知前辈忙什么去了。¤Oh, the main seat should be reserved for the Lin Family Patriarch, but I don't know what the senior is busy with.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你看那大殿中左首便是林家大长老通羽上人了。右首那位我没见过，估摸着应该是星宫的某位长老吧。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, look over there in the left side of the main hall, that's Lin Family Grand Elder Venerable Tongyu. I haven't met the person on the right side, but I guess he must be an elder from the Star Palace.
（呵呵，看来老头子是真老了。）¤(Hehe, it seems the old man is truly old.)
倒是林沐心来到你近旁坐下。料是星宫宫主已经了解完事情经过，整个事件也是尘埃落定罢。¤Lin Muxin sat down beside you. Apparently, the Star Palace Master has already learned about the incident and everything has been resolved.
不多时，你远远地看到星铃儿的身影在近旁一晃而过，却未驻足。¤Soon, you see the figure of Star Bell passing by nearby, but she didn't stop.
进入林家后，在倪旭欣的带领下，你们很快就来到林家大殿前。¤After entering the Lin family, led by Ni Xuxin, you quickly arrived at the front of the Lin family main hall.
你向倪旭欣所指方位望去，注意力却停留在了空着的主位上。¤You looked towards the direction pointed by Ni Xuxin, but your attention stayed on the vacant main seat.
还剩下两位没介绍的就是林家的二长老苗矮上人和栖云真人了，据说这次的联姻便是他们两人促成的了，也不知其中有什么...咳咳，我们还是先去拜见诸位前辈吧。¤There are two more people left to introduce, who are the second elder from the Lin Family, Venerable Miaoai and Immortal Taoist Quyun. It is said that they were the ones who facilitated the marriage alliance this time, but it is unclear what their involvement was... Ahem, let's first go and pay our respects to the seniors.
那位稍显儒雅之气的老者便是公孙府大长老公孙璞，旁边与他格格不入的壮汉则是百里家家主百里邑，至于我父亲，{FirstName}{xiongdi}你也见过了。¤The slightly refined elder is the grand elder of the Gongsun House, Gongsun Pu, while the burly man standing beside him is the head of the Baili Family, Baili Yi. As for my father, {FirstName}, you have already met him, {xiongdi}.
嗯...老夫不知道当年的自己会怎么做，但现在的话，当是不会。¤Well... Old me wouldn't know what to do back then, but now, I definitely won't do it.
你想着时间差不多了，便结束在林家的闲逛，准备回到大殿。¤You thought that the time was almost up, so you ended your leisurely stroll in the Lin family and prepared to return to the main hall.
你屏气凝神，悄悄地靠近长老堂...¤You hold your breath and focus your mind, quietly approaching the Elder Hall...
既然二妮子回来了，议亲的人选要不要换回去？¤Since Er Ni Zi has returned, should we change the candidate for the arranged marriage?
星宫的冲虚长老意下如何？¤How does Elder Chongxu of the Star Palace feel about it?
虽然他一开始看中的是心儿，但已经定下的婚约也不好更改。依我看还是把大妮子许给人家吧，反正...¤Although he initially had his eyes on Xin'er, the engagement that was already set cannot be easily changed. In my opinion, it's better to give the eldest daughter to someone else, anyway...
反正什么，栖云？¤Anyway, what, Qiyun?
这几年老祖闭死关，星宫和我们的关系也有些疏远了，我也是为了家族着想...¤In recent years, the Patriarch has been in closed-door seclusion, and our relationship with Star Palace has also become somewhat distant. I am also thinking for the sake of our family...
冲虚的修为在金丹后期已经停滞多年了，他这次来提亲是为了什么你心里应该清楚。¤The cultivation of Chong Xu has been stagnant for many years in the late golden core stage. You should know why he came this time to propose marriage.
通羽啊，我看你是太溺爱那两个孩子了。婚姻大事，本就应该由我们长老堂说了算。¤Tongyu, I see that you are too indulgent towards those two children. Marriage is a big matter and should be decided by our Elder Hall.
看来几位长老内部也没有统一意见...¤It seems that the elders do not have a unified opinion among themselves...
雪儿一贯懂事，我看是不会再惹什么麻烦的，倒是心儿那丫头，哼，应该好好教育一番...¤Little snow has always been sensible, I don't think she will cause any trouble again. As for little xin, hmph, that girl should be educated properly...
看来林府和星宫的联姻另有隐情...我得赶快告诉林沐心才行。¤It seems that there is another hidden motive behind the marriage alliance between Lin House and Star Palace... I need to quickly inform Lin Muxin.
（似乎是一间空的客房，还是不要浪费时间进去看吧。）¤(It appears to be an empty guest room, perhaps it's best not to waste time going in to look.)
（结侣典礼似乎快开始了，我还是留下观礼吧。）¤(The bonding ceremony seems to be starting soon, I'll stay to watch.)
禀掌门，这便是今年在养剑池下入定时间最长的{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}。¤Reporting to the master, this is {FirstName} {LastName}{shidi}, who has had the longest meditation time under the Sword-Pond this year.
哼...¤Hmph...
哈哈哈，我看诸位还是让这位小友自己选吧。¤Hahaha, I think it's better for you all to let this young friend choose for himself.
{FirstName}{LastName}，你悟性虽高，但修炼一途也并非只靠着天赋便能取得大成就的。¤{FirstName}{LastName}, although your comprehension is high, achieving great achievements in cultivation is not solely reliant on natural talent.
所谓重剑无锋，大巧不工，镇元剑仙一门的《奔雷决》正是我派重剑流的代表功法，传承亦有数千年，对敌时往往能够{color=#d0380a}蓄势{/color}以待，后发制人。¤As the saying goes, 'A Heavy Sword Without Edge, a Great Craft Without Skill'. The 《Thunderous Charge Technique》 of the Swordmaster Zhenyuan is the representative technique of our Heavy Sword faction. It has been passed down for thousands of years and when facing enemies, it often gathers momentum to strike first and win. 
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一个剑匣，递给了你。¤Having said that, the master took out a sword case from the storage pouch and handed it to you.
龙阳师兄想说什么？¤What does Senior Brother Longyang want to say?
如此相争...成何体统。¤So much strife... what kind of system is this?
你走到镇元剑仙身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Swordmaster Zhenyuan and perform the Rites of Passage to become their disciple.
龙阳上人主修的是我派功法《流光真决》，对敌时能利用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力大幅度提升金系法门的威能。¤Venerable Dragon Light focuses mainly on our sect's technique, Flowing Radiance Arts. In battle, it can greatly enhance the power of metal-based techniques by utilizing the phasing of the Five Elements.
这养剑池中所养灵剑，有不少都是我派历代天赋卓绝的长老所留遗物，蕴含他们对于大道的不同感悟。¤The spiritual swords nurtured in this Sword-Nurturing Pool are mostly legacy items left behind by the outstanding elders of our sect throughout history, containing their different enlightenments towards the Great Dao.
镇元师兄所言差矣，祖师当年所创功法多数都已失传，若要拿这个说事，未免...¤Senior brother Zhenyuan's words are incorrect. Many of our sect founder's techniques have been lost over the years. If we bring this up, it might be pointless.
掌门师兄所言极是。¤The words of the head disciple are absolutely correct.
掌门，本届的宗门大比的结果出来了，这次夺魁的是{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}。¤Master, the results of this year's clan competition are out, and the winner is {FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}.
此剑，名为中执，你收着吧。¤Take this sword named Central Executive and keep it.
不错千绝，辛苦你了。¤Great work, Qian Jue. Thank you for your hard work.
此剑匣，名为光流，乃是我年轻时所炼制的武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This sword scabbard, named Light Flow, is a weapon I crafted when I was young. Today, I shall gift it to you as a meeting present.
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一一柄环状武器，扔给了你。¤After speaking, the master took out a ring-shaped weapon from the storage pouch and threw it to you.
能在养剑池中坚持这些时日，说明你悟性不错，而且适合修炼我派功法。若能得妥善指点，未来至少也可有金丹期的成就。¤If you can persist in the Sword Pond for these days, it shows that your comprehension is good and suitable for cultivating our sect's techniques. If you can receive proper guidance, in the future, you will have at least the achievement of the Golden Core stage.
是，掌门。¤Yes, master.
明河剑仙乃我派大长老，修为已达元婴期。他的独门功法《神剑决》在整个宁州也是独树一帜，对敌时一往无前，神通功法皆{color=#d0380a}不再以剑气伤人{/color}，但凡出手皆是杀招。¤Swordmaster Radiant River is our sect's Grand Elder, his cultivation has reached the Nascent Soul stage. His unique technique 《God Sword Art》 is unparalleled in all of Ningzhou, when facing enemies, he is fearless and all of his divine skills no longer rely on Sword Qi to harm his enemies, every move he makes is a killing move.
除了我以外，本门还有三名授业长老在招收弟子。千绝，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤Apart from me, there are three instructor elders in our sect who are accepting disciples. Qian Jue, please introduce the situations of these elders to your {shidi}.
按大比的规矩，你可以从自行选择拜入在座的任意一名长老门下继续修行。千绝，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤According to the rules of the Grand Competition, you can choose to be apprenticed to any elder present to continue your cultivation. Qian Jue, please introduce the situation of the elders to your {shidi}.
我所修功法乃是传承自我派祖师金虹剑仙的重剑一脉，以这小友的悟性，若是拜入我门下，将来必能将之发扬光大。¤The technique I practice is the heavy sword style passed down from our sect's ancestor, the Radiant Sword Immortal. With this young friend's comprehension, if they were to join our sect, they will surely be able to develop and improve it in the future.
此剑匣，名为虹，乃是我年轻时所炼制的武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This sword sheath, named Rainbow, is a weapon that I forged when I was young. Today, I am giving it to you as a gift to commemorate our meeting.
你走到明河剑仙身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Swordmaster Radiant River and perform the Rites of Passage in front of him, bowing to him as your master.
你走到龙阳上人身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Venerable Dragon Light and perform the rites of passage to become their disciple.
本座如今修为已达元婴期瓶颈，要专心为之后的化神做好准备，之后也不会再收弟子了。¤My current cultivation has reached the bottleneck of the Nascent Soul stage. I need to focus on preparing for my future Deity Transformation and will not accept any more disciples after that.
不错。¤Not bad.
你的天赋虽然普通，但心性坚定，一心求道，这次能突破到筑基期，也算十分难得了。¤Although your talent is normal, your heart is firm and dedicated to seeking the Dao. It is quite rare to achieve a breakthrough to the Foundation Establishment stage this time.
跟我来，我这便带你去拜见掌门。¤Follow me, I will take you to meet the master.
等等...{FirstName}{shidi}，是你？你成功凝结元婴了？¤Wait... {FirstName}{shidi}, is that you? Have you successfully condensed your nascent soul?
由于你近日在门派内的表现，你的门派职位被提升为外门执事。¤Due to your recent performance within the sect, your position within the sect has been promoted to outer sect deacon.
由于你近日在门派内的表现，你的门派职位被降为普通内门弟子。¤Due to your recent performance within the sect, your position has been demoted to a normal inner disciple.
能在40岁前突破筑基，{shidi}也可算是我派这一辈中的佼佼者了，未来前途不可限量啊。¤Being able to breakthrough to foundation establishment before the age of 40, {shidi} can also be considered as one of the outstanding disciples of our sect, with limitless potential for the future.
不错...能在50岁前突破筑基，未来若是得些机缘的话，能再突破至金丹期也未可知啊。¤Not bad... to breakthrough to foundation establishment before the age of 50, and if there are some opportunities in the future, it is unknown whether it can breakthrough to golden core stage again.
按我派的规矩，外门弟子凡是可以突破筑基，就能够晋升为我派内门弟子，并拜入我派长老门下修习。¤According to our sect's rules, any outer disciple who can breakthrough to foundation establishment can be promoted to become an inner disciple and study under the guidance of our sect's elders.
你刚走近宗门广场，只听一道悠长洪亮的笑声传到你的耳边。¤As you approach the clan square, you hear a long and loud laughter.
哼，是谁？¤Hmph, who is it?
由于你近日在门派内的表现，你的门派职位被降为普通外门弟子。¤Due to your recent performance within the sect, your sect position has been demoted to normal outer disciple.
还不到30岁就能突破筑基，即使放眼整个宁州，{shidi}你也算年轻一辈中的佼佼者了，未来前途不可限量啊。¤At under 30 years of age, being able to achieve a breakthrough to foundation establishment, even if we look across the entire Ningzhou, {shidi}, you are considered one of the outstanding figures in the younger generation, and your future potential is limitless.
{shidi}，既然你已晋入筑基期，就算得上是我们门派中的一股重要力量了，有些事该要告于你知晓。¤{shidi}, since you have entered the Foundation Establishment stage, you can be considered an important force in our sect. There are some things that should be made known to you.
由于你近日在门派内的表现，你的门派职位被提升为内门执事。¤Due to your recent performance within the sect, your sect position has been promoted to that of an inner sect deacon.
好！好！好！¤Good! Good! Good!
突破元婴后，你的元神实力大增，稍稍外放神识便可覆盖整个宗门，内外门数百人的情况都一览无余，竟无一人发现你。¤After breaking through to nascent soul, your yuan god's power greatly increases. Even a slight release of your soul sense can cover the entire clan, allowing you to see the situation of hundreds of inner and outer disciples without being noticed by anyone.
{shidi}，你的气息...你突破到筑基期了？¤{shidi}, your aura... have you made a breakthrough to the Foundation Establishment stage?
你好奇地扫视了一番，直到撞上另外一股强大的神识..¤You scanned curiously until you collided with another powerful Soul Sense.
掌门的声音：哈哈哈哈，{FirstName}师侄，恭喜你证得金丹大道，还请来大殿一叙。¤The voice of the master
没想到{FirstName}{shidi}此番结婴如此顺利，真乃宗门之幸事，值得好好庆祝一番！{FirstName}{shidi}，请随我来大殿一叙。¤I did not expect {FirstName}{shidi} to successfully reach the nascent stage this time. This is truly a fortunate event for the clan and worthy of a celebration! {FirstName}{shidi}, please follow me to the main hall for a chat.
外门弟子不得擅入宗门大殿¤Outer disciples are not allowed to enter the great hall of the clan.
另外，门派每三十年会举办一次{color=#d0380a}宗门大比{/color}，夺魁者不仅可以直接成为内门弟子，拜入我派任一一位长老门下修习，还能获得一枚{color=#d0380a}筑基丹{/color}作为奖励。¤In addition, the sect holds a {color=#d0380a}clan competition{/color} every thirty years. The winner not only becomes an {color=#d0380a}inner disciple{/color}, but also gets to study under any elder of our sect and gains a {color=#d0380a}foundation pill{/color} as a reward.
{shidi}，新入门弟子的道袍我已经派人为你取来。¤{shidi}, I have already sent someone to get your Dao robe as a newly enrolled junior disciple.
若是你还想兼修我派其它功法，可以自行去往{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}借阅。待{shidi}挑选完入门功法后，若还有什么不明白的，可以来宗门广场找我。¤If you wish to cultivate other techniques from our sect, you may go to the {color=#d0380a}Hidden Manual Pavilion{/color} to borrow them yourself. After choosing the introductory technique, if you still have any questions, you can come to the {sect plaza} to find me, {shidi}.
化尘诀乃我教弟子必须修习的基础功法。尘，扬土也。化尘之窍在于沉可中正稳健，扬则灵动敏迅。{shidi}可配合我教其他神通，仔细体悟其中法门。¤The Dust Transformation Mantra is a foundational technique that all of my disciples must practice. 'Dust' refers to the lifting and dispersal of dirt. The key to mastering this technique is finding a balance between being grounded and stable, yet also agile and nimble. As {shidi}, you should carefully study and understand the principles of this technique, as it can be combined with other divine skills taught in our school.
每年的七月份，我派{color=#d0380a}外门传功长老{/color}都会在宗门广场讲道授法。¤Every July, the {color=#d0380a}outer sect instructor elder{/color} of my sect will give lectures and teach methods on the sect plaza.
若是你还想兼修我派其它功法，可以自行去往{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}借阅。¤If you want to cultivate other techniques of our sect, you can go to the {color=#d0380a}Hidden Manual Pavilion{/color} to borrow them yourself.
这里就是我的洞府了吧，虽然简单倒也是五脏俱全了。¤This is my cave, although it's simple, it has everything I need.
除此以外，传功长老还会传授一些我派入门神通的施展技巧，{shidi}虽然已入我派内门，也可以多去听听，应该会有所收获。¤Aside from that, the elder instructors will also teach some divine skills for displaying techniques for newcomers to the sect. {shidi} has already entered the inner sect, but can also listen more to gain more experience.
每年的七月份，我派{color=#d0380a}外门传功长老{/color}都会在宗门广场讲道授法，{shidi}虽然已入我派内门，也可以多去听听，应该会有所收获。¤Every July, the {color=#d0380a}outer sect instructor elder{/color} of our sect will give teachings and impart knowledge at the {sect plaza}; even though {shidi} has already entered the inner sect, they can still attend and learn something.
多谢师兄提点。¤Thank you, senior brother, for your guidance.
多谢师姐提点。¤Thank you for your guidance, senior sister.
{shidi}虽然已入内门拜师，但这筑基丹也是极为稀有的宝贝。未来{shidi}筑基突破时若能服下几颗，可以大大提高筑基成功的概率。¤{shidi}, although already accepted as a disciple, this Foundation Pill is an extremely rare treasure. In the future, if {shidi} consumes several of them during the Foundation Building breakthrough, it can greatly increase the probability of successfully building the foundation.
此外，这是我教入门神通《还尘》，《化沙》，以及入门功法《化尘诀》。¤Additionally, this is my introductory divine skill 《return dust》, 《transform sand》, and introductory technique 《dust transformation mantra》.
若是你还想领悟我派其它功法神通，可以自行去往{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}借阅。¤If you wish to comprehend the other techniques and divine skills of our sect, you may go to the Hidden Manual Pavilion to borrow them on your own. Remember to preserve the formatting with {color=#d0380a} and {/color}.
好了{shidi}，你既已入我金虹剑派，务必努力修行，争取早日达到{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}修为，成为我派的内门弟子。¤Okay {shidi}, now that you have joined our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, you must work hard in your cultivation and strive to reach the Foundation Establishment stage as soon as possible to become an inner disciple of our sect.
你来到剑池前，席地而坐，由数千把灵气飞剑组成的剑河在你的头顶盘旋...¤You arrive in front of the Sword Pool and sit on the ground. A sword river composed of thousands of flying swords of spiritual breath swirls above your head.
{vpunch=10,0.5}四...四天？¤Four... Four days?
恭喜{shidi}，从今日起你就是我们金虹剑派的外门弟子了，这个储物袋里装的是我派道袍和一些日常用品，你且收着。¤Congratulations {shidi}, from today onwards you are now an outer disciple of our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect. This storage pouch contains the sect's robes and some daily necessities, please keep it safe.
你对金之道的感悟略微提升了。¤Your enlightenment of the metal dao has slightly increased.
对于每个剑修而言，他们感悟到的剑意都不一样，就像这剑阵中的数十万把灵气飞剑，个性也各不相同。有的灵动飘逸，有的煞气逼人...¤For every sword cultivator, the sword intent they enlighten to is different, just like the hundreds of thousands of spirit swords in this sword array, each with their own unique personality. Some are lively and elegant, while others are full of murderous intent...
{vpunch=10,0.5}五...五天？¤Five...Five days?
不过想像这般进入顿悟的状态，也只有第一次体悟剑阵时才有这样的机会。{shidi}能够入定六天，在外门弟子中已经算很不错的成绩，当年师兄我也只不过坚持了十天罢了。¤However, to enter the state of enlightenment like this, there is only a chance like the first time comprehending the sword array. It is considered very good among the outer disciples for {shidi} to be able to enter deep concentration for six days. Back then, I, as a senior brother, only persisted for ten days.
随着时间的流逝，剑阵中所蕴含的磅礴剑意也愈发凌厉起来，你只感到威压越来越强大，拼命运转灵气想要与之抗衡，豆大的汗珠从你的额头低落，正当你快要坚持不住时，一股外力将你强行从入定的状态中打断。¤As time passed, the majestic sword intent contained in the sword array grew more and more fierce. You only felt the might suppression getting stronger and stronger, desperately using your spiritual energy to try and resist it. Droplets of sweat rolled down from your forehead. Just when you were on the verge of collapse, an external force forcefully interrupted you from your meditative state.
你有些茫然地接过储物袋，环顾广场的四周，发现白天熙熙攘攘来参加仙资大会的人群都已经不见了。¤You took the storage pouch feeling a bit confused, looked around the square, and noticed that the crowd that came to participate in the Immortal Resources Convention during the day had already disappeared.
你闭上眼深吸了一口气，将灵气注入剑池，努力让自己的心情平静下来，很快便进入了入定的状态...¤You closed your eyes and took a deep breath, infusing spiritual energy into the sword pond, trying to calm your emotions and quickly entered a state of meditation...
你谨慎地将灵气注入剑池，霎时间原本如镜无波的表面沸腾起来，迸射出强烈的光芒。一柄飞剑从剑阵之中挣脱而出，在半空中盘旋数周后停留在了你的面前。¤You carefully infused spiritual energy into the sword pool, and suddenly the originally still surface boiled up, emitting a strong light. A flying sword broke free from the sword array and hovered in the air for several rounds before stopping in front of you.
{vpunch=10,0.5}三...三天？¤Three... Three days?
在剑阵的威压下坚持的越久，得到的好处也就越多，想必{shidi}这几天应该已经有所体会了。¤The longer one persists under the might suppression of the sword array, the greater the benefits obtained. I believe that {shidi} has already experienced it these past few days.
有意思...这剑阵考验的不是你们的修为与心境，而是悟性。只有能够在剑势的威能之下领悟剑意，才能够获得阵中灵气剑的认可。¤Interesting... This sword array tests not your cultivation and mental state, but your comprehension. Only those who can comprehend the sword intent under the power of the sword can gain the recognition of the qi swords in the array.
{vpunch=10,0.5}六...六天？¤Six...six days?
随着时间的流逝，剑阵中所蕴含的磅礴剑意也愈发凌厉起来，在强大的威压之下，你竟然进入了难得一遇的顿悟状态...¤As time passes, the mighty sword intent contained within the sword array becomes even more fierce. Under the overwhelming might suppression, you unexpectedly enter a rare state of enlightenment...
先去门派{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}领取入门功法，然后再回来找我吧。¤First go to {color=#d0380a}the sect's Hidden Manual Pavilion{/color} to get your introductory technique, then come back and find me.
除了你以外，广场上还有熙熙攘攘不下百人聚集在一起等待，想必都是来参加这仙资大会的。¤Apart from you, there are more than a hundred people gathered together on the square waiting, presumably all of them are here to attend this immortal resources grand gathering. 
{shidi}不必疑惑，你已经在养剑池前入定了整整{color=#d0380a}{$tian}{/color}天了，那些没有通过测试的人早在{$tian}天前就已经离开门派，下山去了。¤{shidi}, no need to be puzzled. You have been meditating in front of the sword pool for a full {color=#d0380a}{$tian}{/color} days. Those who failed the test have already left the sect and descended the mountain {tian} days ago.
能够在大阵之中坚持下来，并得到灵剑认可之人，就有资格成为我派外门弟子。至于能否得到灵剑的认可，就看各位的{color=#d0380a}悟性{/color}了。¤Those who can persist in the great array and gain the recognition of the spirit sword are eligible to become outer disciples of our sect. As for whether or not you can gain the recognition of the spirit sword, it depends on your comprehension.
还剩余三五人仍在坚持，直到天色渐暗之时，才全部结束。其中仅有一人得到了剑阵的认可，收服了剑阵中的一把灵剑，他也成为了今年仙资大会中唯一一个通过测试的人。¤Only three to five people remained until the sky gradually darkened before everyone finally finished. Among them, only one person gained the recognition of the sword array and managed to subdue a spirit sword from within it, becoming the only person to pass the test in this year's Immortal Resources Conference.
你跟着那名弟子来到广场之上，首先映入你眼帘的是恢弘无比的剑阵。游动的飞剑错综汇集成巨大的剑河，将建筑群镀上一层浅薄的青色。¤You follow the disciple to the square and the first thing that catches your eye is the magnificent sword array. The moving flying swords converge into a huge sword river, coating the buildings with a thin layer of cyan color.
你从入定的状态中缓缓醒来，有些茫然地环顾广场的四周，发现白天熙熙攘攘来参加仙资大会的人群都已经不见了。¤You slowly woke up from a state of deep meditation and looked around the square in confusion. You noticed that the bustling crowd who came to attend the Immortal Capital Conference during the day had all disappeared.
你来到宗门广场，只见广场的中心已经升起了一座巨大的擂台。此刻，台下已是人山人海，负责这次门派大比报名事宜的几位执事周围更是被围的水泄不通。人群中有着许多身着蓝色道袍的女性修士，想来她们便是星河剑派的弟子们了。¤You arrived at the sect plaza, only to see a huge arena being raised at the center of the square. At this moment, the area below the platform was crowded with people, and several officials who were responsible for the registration of the sect's grand competition were surrounded by the masses. Among the crowd, there were many female cultivators dressed in blue Taoist robes, who were presumably disciples of the Celestial River Sword Sect.
今日是我们金虹剑派一年一度的仙资大会，无论年龄性别，但凡身具灵根者皆可以来养剑池前进行测试。¤Today is our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect's annual Immortal Resources Conference. Regardless of age or gender, anyone with Spiritual Root can come to the Sword Pool for testing. 
{shidi}不必疑惑，你已经在养剑池前入定了整整{color=#d0380a}三{/color}天了，那些没有通过测试的人早在三天前就已经离开门派，下山去了。¤{shidi}, don't be doubtful. You have been in a meditative state in front of the sword pond for {color=#d0380a}three{/color} full days. Those who have not passed the test have already left the sect and gone down the mountain.
属于我的剑道...是什么呢？¤What is my sword dao...?
眼前之人对你摇了摇头，你有些茫然地环顾四周，这才发现除你以外的大部分人都已经退出了入定的状态，垂头丧气的站在一边，想来也都和你一样，没有能够通过剑阵的考验。¤The person in front of your eyes shook their head at you. You looked around in confusion and then realized that most of the other people had already exited the state of meditation and were standing dejectedly on the side. It seems that like you, they also failed to pass the test of the sword array.
剑意...那是什么？¤Sword intent...what is that? 
几位长老都已经在宗门大殿等你了，{shidi}请随我来。¤Several elders are already waiting for you in the great hall of the clan, {shidi} please follow me.
毅力倒是可佳，可惜悟性不佳。¤Perseverance is commendable, unfortunately comprehension is lacking.
{vpunch=10,0.5}{$tian}...{$tian}天？¤{vpunch=10,0.5}{$tian}...{$tian}Heaven?
不过想像这般进入顿悟的状态，也只有第一次体悟剑阵时才有这样的机会。{shidi}能够入定四天，在外门弟子中已经算很不错的成绩，当年师兄我也只不过坚持了十天罢了。¤However, to enter into a state of enlightenment like this, one could only have such an opportunity when comprehending the sword array for the first time. {shidi} staying in a state of concentration for four days is already considered a good achievement among outer disciples. Back then, even I, as a senior brother, only persisted for ten days.
{shidi}不必疑惑，你已经在养剑池前入定了整整{color=#d0380a}四{/color}天了，那些没有通过测试的人早在四天前就已经离开门派，下山去了。¤Junior Brother, do not be puzzled. You have already meditated in front of the Sword Pond for a full {color=#d0380a}four{/color} days. Those who did not pass the test left the sect four days ago and went down the mountain.
不过想像这般进入顿悟的状态，也只有第一次体悟剑阵时才有这样的机会。{shidi}能够入定五天，在外门弟子中已经算很不错的成绩，当年师兄我也只不过坚持了十天罢了。¤However, to imagine entering the state of enlightenment like this, there is only a chance like this when comprehending the sword array for the first time. {shidi} was able to remain in a trance for five days, which is already considered impressive among the outer disciples. Back then, I, as a senior brother, only persisted for ten days.
不过想像这般进入顿悟的状态，也只有第一次体悟剑阵时才有这样的机会。{shidi}能够入定三天，在外门弟子中已经算很不错的成绩，当年师兄我也只不过坚持了十天罢了。¤However, to enter into a state of enlightenment like this, there's only a chance for it during the first realization of the sword array. It's already considered quite impressive for an outer disciple like {shidi} to meditate for three days, and in my time as a senior brother, I could only manage to hold on for ten days at most.
{shidi}不必疑惑，你已经在养剑池前入定了整整{color=#d0380a}六{/color}天了，那些没有通过测试的人早在六天前就已经离开门派，下山去了。¤{shidi} Don't be confused, you've been in a trance in front of the Sword Pond for a full {color=#d0380a}six{/color} days. Those who didn't pass the test had already left the sect and went down the mountain six days ago.
{shidi}不必疑惑，你已经在养剑池前入定了整整{color=#d0380a}五{/color}天了，那些没有通过测试的人早在五天前就已经离开门派，下山去了。¤{shidi}, don't be confused. You have been immersed in meditation in front of the Sword-Pond for a full {color=#d0380a}five{/color} days. Those who did not pass the test have left the sect and gone down the mountain five days ago.
但无论如何，只有领悟属于自己的剑道，才能成为一个真正的剑修。这金虹剑派的仙资测试，倒真是不同寻常。¤But regardless, only by comprehending one's own Sword Dao can one become a true Sword Cultivator. This Xianzi test of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect is truly out of the ordinary. 
一年一度的仙资大会现已结束，没有通过测试的诸位道友与本派无缘，就随着方执事一起下山去吧。¤The annual Immortal Resources Conference has now ended. Fellow daoists who did not pass the test have no chance with our sect. Please follow Senior Fang down the mountain.
可惜想像这般进入顿悟的状态，也只有第一次体悟剑阵时才有这样的机会。{shidi}能够入定{$tian}天，说明你悟性极高，实属百年难遇之奇才。¤Unfortunately, it's only the first time one comprehends the sword array that they can enter into a state of sudden comprehension like this. The fact that {shidi} can meditate for {$tian} days indicates that your comprehension is extremely high, making you a genius that appears once in a century.
下面请各位道友来养剑池前坐下，将自身灵气注入剑池，体悟剑意。¤Below, please fellow daoists come and sit in front of the Sword Pond, infusing your own spiritual energy into it, comprehending sword intent.
你也不必灰心，大道三千，个人自有个人的机缘，既然你的机缘不在这金虹剑派，那也不必强求。¤You don't have to be disheartened. The Great Tao has three thousand avenues, and everyone has their own opportunities. Since your opportunity is not in the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, there is no need to force it.
{shixiong}可是刚历练结束？猎魔试炼不日开启，大师兄正在发放{color=#d0380a}天魔令{/color}给即将启程的弟子呢。¤Senior Brother, have you recently completed your training? The Demon Hunt Trial is about to begin, and the Master is currently distributing Heavenly Demon Orders to disciples who are about to set out.
唉，你这次猎魔试炼的表现实在拖我派的后腿，此后可千万勤加修炼，切莫再如此丢老夫的脸面。¤Sigh, your performance in this demon hunting trial really slowed down our sect. From now on, you must diligently cultivate and not disgrace me again.
切记莫要在门派中人面前提起我，否则你我二人师徒缘分也就到此为止了。¤Remember, do not mention me in front of anyone in the sect, otherwise our master-disciple relationship will come to an end.
是，弟子省得了。¤Yes, disciple has understood.
很好，这本《雾相化身》你先拿回去领悟，有什么不懂之处可再来问我。¤Okay, take this 《mist clone》 and comprehend it first. If you have any doubts, you can come and ask me again.
你倒是个有心的，罢了，我俩没有这个师徒缘分也不必强求。¤You are a conscientious person, but we do not have the fate of a master-disciple relationship, so there is no need to force it.
你且拿上这本我平日的修炼心得，算是全了我的一番心意。¤You take this book of my usual cultivation experience, consider it as my expression of goodwill.
多谢前辈美意，不过在下已经拜师，若再得您的传承恐怕德行有失，影响道心。¤Thank you for your kindness, senior. However, I have already taken a master. If I were to receive your instruction again, I'm afraid it would affect my moral character and spiritual path.
不错，不错。如此年纪便能在寒月潭领悟幻雾之法，真是资质可嘉。¤Not bad, not bad. To be able to comprehend the mirage mist technique at such a young age in the Cold Moon Lake, truly admirable aptitude.
本座乃是星河剑派长老，道号奕云。看在你为我派弟子的份上我愿赠你一份机缘，即是获得我的功法传承，不知你可愿意？¤I am the elder of the Celestial River Sword Sect, with the Daoist name Yi Yun. Since you are a disciple of our sect, I am willing to give you an opportunity to gain my technique inheritance. Are you willing?
你这{xiaozi}可是到过寒月潭了？¤Have you been to the Cold Moon Lake before, {xiaozi}?
你再睁开眼时，突然发现身边多了一位身着星河剑派道袍的女修。¤When you opened your eyes again, you suddenly found yourself with a female cultivator dressed in Celestial River Sword Sect's robes beside you. 
不错，没有辜负了本座的《培源静心曲》。¤Not bad, you have not let down my 《Peak-Origin Calm Cultivation Formula》.
如鸣佩环的琴音叮咚作响，似是有意引导一般令你心境空明。一曲奏罢，你获益匪浅。¤The sound of a ringing and echoing zither, like the chiming of a jingling musical instrument, seems intentionally guiding you towards an empty and bright mental state. After the piece is finished playing, you have gained significant benefits.
你没有贸然上前，而是选择在这片琴声中盘膝而坐，阖目修练。¤You did not rashly move forward, but chose to sit cross-legged in the midst of the sound of the qin, closing your eyes to cultivate.
哪来的黄毛{xiaozi}打扰本座修炼？去去去，离本座清修的地方远些。¤Where did this yellow-haired {xiaozi} come from to disturb my cultivation? Go away and stay far from the place where I am cultivating.
你朝着竹屋的方向走了几步，一股强大的禁制之力传来，令你无法再前进半分。¤You walked a few steps in the direction of the bamboo house, and a strong restraint force came over you, preventing you from moving forward even half a step.
瀑布旁的池水边伫立着一栋竹屋，里面传来铮铮琴音。¤There is a bamboo house standing beside the pool next to the waterfall, and the sound of the zither can be heard from inside.
星河剑派管辖的风雷谷内竟有人居住，不知是何方神圣？¤A person is living in the Wind and Thunder Valley under the jurisdiction of the Celestial River Sword Sect, I wonder who they are?
不知走了多久，你周围的迷雾渐渐散去，只见林石上一帘瀑布奔流而下，水花急溅，激起无数水柱。¤Not knowing how long you walked, the mist around you gradually scattered, revealing a waterfall cascading down a rocky cliff. Water splashed furiously, creating countless pillars of water.
这雾起得蹊跷，我倒要看看是什么在这里装神弄鬼！¤This mist rises suspiciously, I want to see what is playing tricks here!
反正也找不到出去的路，你把心一横，径直朝雾中走去。¤Anyway, since there is no way out, you make up your mind and walk straight into the mist.
也不知道此处什么门道，竟如此诡秘。¤Also don't know what trick there is here, unexpectedly so mysterious.
你努力摸索着来路，功夫不负有心人，在你坚持不懈的寻找下你终于走出了这片迷雾。¤You have worked hard to explore the way, and your perseverance has paid off. After continuing to search, you have finally emerged from this misty region.
回头望去，来时的路同样被浓雾遮掩，你不由迷失了方向。¤Looking back, the road you came from is also covered in thick fog, causing you to lose your direction involuntarily.
你刚踏入此地就感受到一股强大的禁制之力，无法再前进半分。¤As soon as you set foot in this place, you feel a powerful force of prohibition, unable to move forward even a little bit.
你刚踏入此地便升腾起厚重的迷雾，仿佛行走在云端般缥缈虚幻。¤You just stepped into this place and a thick mist rises up, as if walking in the clouds, it is ethereal and elusive.
我还是不要打扰奕云前辈清修了......¤I better not disturb Senior Yi Yun while he is in secluded cultivation...
一片雾霭迷蒙之地，令你心生亲切之感。¤A land shrouded in mist and mist, giving rise to a familiar feeling in your heart.
依弟子之见，《雾相化身》可用于迷惑敌人，在对战时以幻雾制造假身，虚实之间令对方无法断定真假。¤In my opinion, 《 Mist Clone 》 can be used to deceive enemies during battle by creating a false body using Mirage Mist, making it difficult for opponents to determine reality from illusion.
除此以外，你大可用此假身引诱对方攻击，白白消耗他的灵力。¤In addition, you can use this fake body to lure the opponent to strike, wasting their spiritual power for no reason.
能领悟至此你已对《雾相化身》有了较深的见解。为师接下来便将《云雾剑法》传授与你。¤If you can comprehend to this level, you already have a deep understanding of the Mist Clone. Next, I will impart the Mist Sword Art to you.
此神通较难体悟，望你勤加修炼，切莫辜负本座对你的期望。¤This divine skill is difficult to comprehend. I hope you will diligently cultivate it and not disappoint my expectations of you.
有些熟悉的琴音袅袅升起，你心中清楚这是奕云仙子在提点你，于是静下心来专一修炼。¤Some familiar sound of qin music rises softly, and you clearly know that it is Xianzi Yi Yun guiding you, so you focus your mind and cultivate single-mindedly.
孺子可教也，上次我交给你的《雾相化身》修练得怎么样了？¤An inexperienced person can be taught. How did your training in 《mist clone》 that I gave you last time go?
距上次你来之期还未满一年，贪多嚼不烂，你且回去多体悟体悟再来见我。¤It has not been a full year since your last visit. You are being too greedy and need to go back and reflect before coming to see me again.
再次来到奕云仙子的清修之地，你轻车熟路地穿过迷雾来到竹屋前。¤Returning to the place where Fairy Abundant Cloud resides and practices, you easily passed through the mist and arrived in front of the bamboo house.
言罢，奕云仙子挥了挥手，浓雾轻拢慢涌，将四周的景象全部遮掩起来。¤Upon finishing her words, Fairy Abundant Cloud waved her hand, and a dense mist gathered and slowly surged, shrouding all the surroundings.
你四下搜寻了一番，再也不见当初的瀑布与竹屋，只得对着雾霭深处行了个大礼，拜别奕云仙子。¤After searching around, you could no longer find the waterfall and bamboo house from before and had to bow towards the mist and fog in the distance, bidding farewell to Fairy Abundant Cloud.
你既得了我的传承，就要勤加修炼争取成为长老于门派授业，切莫让此流派没落。¤If you have obtained my heritage, you must diligently cultivate and strive to become an elder to teach within the sect, lest this lineage decline.
您是指......？¤Are you referring to...?
也怪我当时年少轻狂过于自负，以为天赋资质便能决定仙途的一切，才落得如今这样无可挽回的局面。¤It's also my fault for being too arrogant when I was young and thinking that my innate talent could determine everything about my journey to immortality, which is why I ended up in this irreparable situation now.
我与云玑本师出同门，皆拜于前任掌门席下。师姐天资愚钝，但胜在勤奋刻苦，故仙途还算平顺。¤I and Yunji are fellow disciples, both disciples of the former leader. Senior sister is not gifted, but perseveres through hard work, so her path to immortality is relatively smooth.
而我资质稍胜一筹，凭借不弱的修为也闯出了自己的一片天地，正是意气风发少年时。¤And my aptitude was slightly better, relying on my formidable cultivation to carve out my own path, just like a spirited young man.
遥想当年几位各有所成的同门煮茶论道，卧栏听雨，倒也算风流惬意。只可惜师尊未能突破化神，大限将至之际星河剑派内因掌门之位的归属起了分歧。¤Many years ago, several fellow disciples who had achieved varying levels of success in their cultivation, would brew tea and debate the way of cultivation, listen to the rain while leaning against the fence, feeling relaxed and carefree. Unfortunately, the master was unable to reach the breakthrough of deity transformation, and at the end of their life, a dispute arose within the Celestial River Sword Sect regarding the successor to the position of sect leader.
师姐与我各有一派支持，但选举前夕不知长老们达成了什么共识，竟将票齐齐投给了师姐。¤My senior sister and I each have a faction supporting us, but on the eve of the election, I don't know what consensus the elders reached, and they all voted for my senior sister.
我那时心高气傲，无法忍受这样的结果，一气之下离开星河剑派于这风雷谷中开辟了一方居所。¤At that time, I was arrogant and couldn't tolerate such a result. In a fit of anger, I left Celestial River Sword Sect and established a residence in Wind and Thunder Valley.
这些年细细想来，或许师尊心中已有定数。我生性浮躁，不如师姐谨慎稳重，星河剑派交予师姐手中也许才是最好的结果。¤Over the years, upon reflection, it is possible that our Master already had a predetermined plan. I am impatient by nature, and perhaps it would be better for Senior Sister, who is cautious and steady, to be entrusted with the Celestial River Sword Sect. It may be the best outcome.
唉，也难怪你会好奇我为何于此地清修，毕竟有谁愿意放弃门派的地位声望来守一座平平无奇的后山呢？¤Ah, it's no wonder you're curious about why I came to cultivate here. After all, who would be willing to give up their sect's status and reputation to guard a plain back mountain like this?
奕云仙子又与你说了许多她对此道的感悟，你感觉自己又有了新的理解。¤The fairy abundant cloud has explained many of her insights on the path to you, and you feel that you have gained a new understanding.
不知你对于《云雾剑法》的感悟如何，说与本座听听。¤I do not know how you have enlightened yourself regarding the 《mist sword art》. Please share with me your insights.
《云雾剑法》剑意为主，幻雾为辅。在自身对剑道理解的基础上以幻雾之法辅以攻击，达到锦上添花之效。¤Mist Sword Art focuses on sword intent, with Mirage Mist as a supplementary technique. By combining Mirage Mist with attacks based on their own understanding of the sword path, they can achieve an even greater effect.
正是如此，能领悟至此你已对《云雾剑法》有了较深的见解。接下来为师传授与你的，是幻雾派一脉相传的《幻雾真法》。¤It is so, with the enlightenment you have gained, you have gained a deeper understanding of the Mist Sword Art. What I will now teach you is the Mirage Mist Skill, passed down through generations of the Mirage Mist Sect.
此功法须得搭配你先前领悟的那些神通使用方能发挥最大效益，你要好好修练。¤This technique must be used in conjunction with the divine skills that you have previously enlightened in order to maximize its effectiveness. You must practice diligently.
待领悟《幻雾真法》，你所学的神通功法已自成体系，我能传授给你的也只有这么多了。¤Waiting to comprehend the Mirage Mist Skill, the divine skills you have learned have already formed their own system. I can only teach you this much.
你离开此地后我二人师徒缘分便尽了，今日我再最后替你答疑解惑一次吧。¤After you leave this place, the karma between us as master and disciple will come to an end. Today, let me answer your questions and clear up your doubts for the last time.
你对于《云雾剑法》的感悟还过于浅显，你且回去多体悟体悟再来见我。¤You have a shallow understanding of the Mist Sword Art. Go back and reflect more before coming to see me again.
此地是星河剑派矿脉，要在此采集吗？¤Is this the mining vein of the Celestial River Sword Sect? Do you want to gather here?
要离开风雷谷吗？¤Do you want to leave Wind and Thunder Valley?
竟然能体悟到雾系神通...看来我也算是有缘之人。¤I happened to comprehend mist-type divine skill... it seems I am also someone with fate.
你抓出此刻的顿悟之意屈膝而坐，尝试领悟转换的法门。¤You sit down on your knees, seizing the moment of enlightenment, and trying to comprehend the method of transformation.
感受着水与雾的转换，你尝试着模拟其中奥妙。你手中的水弹旋转变换，从透澈逐渐转向素色，一团缥缈的雾气最终在你手中成型。¤Feeling the transition between water and mist, you attempt to simulate its mysteries. The water in your hand spins and transforms, gradually changing from transparency to a plain color, until a hazy mist takes shape in your hand.
你在这砭人肌骨的潭水中修炼了许久，感觉心神受益颇多。¤You have cultivated for a long time in this water that sharpens people's flesh and bones, feeling that your mind and spirit has benefited greatly.
你心神一动，跨步迈入潭水中。刺骨的寒意侵蚀着你的灵气，你不由得运起功法护住经脉。¤Your mind moves and steps into the water of the pool. The bone-chilling cold erodes your spiritual energy, causing you to instinctively use a technique to protect your meridians.
你有些好奇地走上前去，用手鞠了一把潭水。清冽的潭水在你手中化为一团水雾倏尔飘散。¤You approached curiously and scooped up a handful of the pond water with your hand. The clear and cold pond water turned into a mist and quickly dissipated in your palm.
藉此机会你屈膝而坐，乘着顿悟之意畅游灵海。¤Taking this opportunity, you kneel and sit down, riding on the enlightened spirit to freely roam the spiritual sea.
你感悟着清月谭水带来的纯粹灵气，似乎从其中窥探到水之道的法门。¤You enlighten yourself with the pure spiritual energy brought forth by the water of Qingyue Lake, as if peeking into the secrets of the Water Dao.
正前方一汪清澈的潭水似倒映皎月之影般澄澈清亮，隐隐散出冷峭之气。¤The clear pool in front is as clear and bright as the reflection of a bright moon, emitting a faintly cold and sharp aura.
你踏入寒月潭所处之地。浓厚的水系灵气夹杂着寒气扑面而来，你不禁打了个寒颤。¤the land of the north
此地只向持有清月令的弟子开放，{shidi}请回吧。¤This place is only open to disciples who possess the Lake Bright Moon Decree. {shidi}, please leave.
来者何人？¤Who is it that has come?
你能感受到此地浓郁的龙脉之力似乎会被你吸引。¤You can feel the rich power of dragon veins here and it seems to be attracted to you.
你能感受到此地浓郁的龙脉之力经龙珠提纯之后源源不断的进入你的体内。¤You can feel the rich power of dragon veins here, which is continuously flowing into your body after being purified by the dragon ball.
若是你突破到筑基期，才能去第二层借阅更高级的功法玉简。至于第三层，则只对我派的长老和供奉们开放。¤If you breakthrough to the Foundation Establishment stage, you can borrow higher level technique scrolls on the second level. As for the third level, it is only open to the elders and guest elders of our sect.
{shidi}看着眼生，应该是第一次来我派藏经阁吧？¤{shidi}, you seem unfamiliar. Is this your first time visiting our sect's hidden manual pavilion?
我派藏经阁共分三层，这第一层存放的都是一些普通的功法、神通以及一些修真界的基础知识，是专门给低阶修士准备的，因为要普及众多的弟子，所以是不会用玉简存放的。¤My sect's Hidden Manual Pavilion is divided into three levels. The first level contains normal techniques, divine skills, and basic knowledge about the cultivation world. It is specifically prepared for low-level cultivators since we need to popularize it among many disciples, so it will not be stored in jade slips.
还请师兄指点。¤Please give me your guidance, Senior Brother.
多谢师兄告知，请问这第一层的书籍可以随便借阅么？¤Thank you, senior brother, for informing me. May I borrow books from the first level freely?
你借阅的副本看完后，自行毁去便可。切记，无论你从藏经阁内拿的是天阶的神通玉简，还是最普通的人阶秘籍，都绝不可以外传！¤After you finish reading the borrowed copy, you may destroy it yourself. Remember, whether you obtain a jade slip of divine skills from the Heavenly Stage or the most common secret manual of the Mortal Stage from the Hidden Manual Pavilion, you must not leak it out.
这些书都有很多的副本，但毕竟外门弟子众多，所以我们会收取一些灵石。你若是选好了自己想要的书籍，便可拿来我处登记。¤These books all have many copies, but since there are many outer disciples after all, we will collect some spirit stones. If you have chosen the books you want, you can bring them to me for registration.
是，师兄。¤Yes, Senior Brother.
此地是化尘教矿脉，要在此地采集吗？¤Is this the Shifting Sand Sect's vein of ore? Do you want to gather here?
我本来只是想看看这石碑什么门道，没想到竟了悟了土之道。¤I originally just wanted to take a look at this stone tablet to see what it was about, but unexpectedly I gained enlightenment in the earth dao.
想来是化尘教先人留下的机缘，但能于此顿悟也证明{xiaozi}你在修仙之路上确实有几分资质。¤It seems that the Shifting Sand Sect left behind this opportunity for {xiaozi}, but being able to comprehend it here also proves that you do have some aptitude on your path to cultivation.
望你勤加修炼，切莫白白浪费了自己的天赋。¤I hope you will diligently cultivate and not waste your natural talent.
你这{xiaozi}再多闭关几日，恐怕就要被化尘教之人扫地出门了。倒也算你走运，这几日并未有巡逻弟子到此地视察。¤You, {xiaozi}, if you continue to cultivate for a few more days, you may be kicked out by the Shifting Sand Sect. You're lucky that there hasn't been any patrol disciples inspecting this area in the past few days.
怕你出什么意外我便等候多时，现下{shixiong}出关并无大恙，我便继续巡逻去了。¤I was waiting for a while in case something unexpected happened to you. Now that you, shixiong, have come out from seclusion unharmed, I will continue my patrol.
多谢师弟关照。¤Thank you for taking care of me, junior.
{shixiong}总算醒了，我巡逻到无字碑这儿正见你盘坐于此，心想{shixiong}应是受先人留下的道意荫庇，领悟了土之道。¤Brother {shixiong} finally woke up. I was patrolling here near the Silent Monument and saw you meditating. I thought that you must have been blessed with the enlightenment of our ancestors, and have comprehended the Earth Dao.
再次睁开双眼时，你对土之道的感悟似乎加深了一些。¤Upon opening your eyes once again, your enlightenment of the earth dao seems to have deepened a bit.
你被这波动感染，沉浸于沙尘的世界中无法自拔。¤You are infected by this wave and immersed in the world of sand and dust, unable to extricate yourself.
石碑被扬起的沙砾包围着，你缓缓地朝它靠近。一丝淳厚的灵力迎面而来，天地间仿佛都充斥着沙的气息。¤The gravel that was raised by the stone tablet surrounds you as you approach it slowly. A pure and thick spiritual power comes towards you, as if the air is filled with the scent of sand.
高约百丈的断崖边伫立着一座厚重敦实的石碑，虽然其上未刻有任何文字，但你从中读到了时间的沧桑。¤At the edge of a cliff that was about a hundred feet tall stood a thick and sturdy stone monument. Although there were no inscriptions on it, you could read the vicissitudes of time from it.
一块普通的无字石碑立在崖边，你凝神端详了一会儿，什么特别之处也没注意到。¤A normal blank stone tablet stands at the edge of the cliff. You gazed at it intently for a while, but didn't notice anything special.
哼，说不准这就是这世上最后一株大衍草了，哪来那么造化之物多给你强筋锻骨。¤Hmph, it's hard to say if this is the last remaining Great Revitalizing Grass in the world. Don't count on any stroke of luck to give you more to strengthen your bones.
你仔细地检查了自己的变化，发现经由乾坤土药液浸泡后，你的身体强度提升了不少，远胜于同阶修士。¤You carefully check your own changes and find that after soaking in the Qiankun soil medicinal liquid, the strength of your body has greatly increased, far exceeding that of cultivators of the same level.
感觉筋骨活络了许多，要是能再寻来几盒泡泡岂不美哉？¤I feel that my muscles and bones have become more flexible, it would be great if I could find a few more boxes of bubble gum.
{xiaozi}，效果如何？¤How is the effect of {xiaozi}?
待你将池中药力吸收殆尽已是三日后，上岸后你简单地用灵力烘干了衣服。¤After you had absorbed all the medicinal power in the pool, it had been three days. After getting out of the water, you simply used your spiritual power to dry your clothes.
加入乾坤土的水依旧清澈，但却变得凝滞起来，你以灵力对抗这滞塞的池水朝着更深处走去。¤The water added with Qian Kun soil remained clear, but it became stagnant. You used spiritual power to resist the blocked pool water and walked towards the deeper area.
你准备好一切后布下敛息阵法，按照魏无极的吩咐运气护体，慢慢跨入池水中。¤After preparing everything, set up a restraint array, according to Wei Wuji's instructions, regulate your breathing and slowly step into the pool.
入浴时切记以灵力护体，待完全浸入水中后再将灵力散去方可发挥药汤作用。¤During bathing, remember to use the qi shield to protect your body. Only after completely immersing yourself in water, should you release the qi to allow the medicinal bath to take effect.
我知道了。¤I understand.
它本身并无多大功效，珍贵的是它所扎根的土壤。大衍草生长的土地名为乾坤土，以其入浴沐身有固本培元之效。¤Its effectiveness itself is not great, the valuable thing is the soil where it takes root. The land where Da Yan grass grows is called Qian Kun soil, and taking a bath in it and rubbing on the body has the effect of strengthening the foundation and cultivating the origin.
你且拿个玉盒出来，用玉片将此草连带周围三寸的泥土一并盛进盒内。不过就算使用玉盒保存，乾坤土的效力也会随时间流逝而衰减，最好是能立刻使用。¤Take out a jade box and use jade pieces to scoop up this grass and the surrounding three inches of soil into the box. However, even if it is stored in a jade box, the efficacy of the Qiankun soil will decay over time, so it is best to use it immediately.
不远处有个小池塘，不知可行与否？¤There is a small pond not far away, I don't know if it is feasible or not?
{xiaozi}！去你左手边那个草丛看看！快！¤{xiaozi}! Go check the bushes on your left hand side! Quickly!
魏无极略显焦急的声音敦促着你，你以为此处埋伏着什么不得了的敌人提心吊胆地摸了过去。¤Wei Wuji's slightly anxious voice urged you on, and you nervously crept forward, thinking that there might be some terrible enemy waiting in ambush here.
你谨慎地打探了一番后什么也没有发现，魏无极叫你查看的似乎只是一丛普通的草。¤You cautiously investigated for a while but found nothing. What Wei Wuji asked you to check seems to be just a normal clump of grass.
老头儿，你是不是成心拿我开心？¤Old man, are you deliberately teasing me?
哈哈哈哈，这次你这{xiaozi}可是捡到宝了。我的眼光果然不错，其中叶缘似微波，五脉蕴地灵的那株正是大衍草无疑。¤Hahaha, this time you really hit the jackpot, {xiaozi}. My vision is indeed good. Among them, the one with leaf edges resembling ripples and five veins containing earth spirits is undoubtedly the Big Yan Grass.
大衍草？¤Great Expansion Grass?
没错，此草在我尚有形体时便近乎绝迹，知之者甚少。我原以为这大衍草如今已经灭绝了，没想到在这草丛还能找到一株。¤Yes, this grass was nearly extinct when I still had a physical form. Very few people knew about it. I thought that the Da Yan grass was already extinct, but I was surprised to find a plant of it in this grassy area.
不错，当真是天道眷顾。既然如此将此土挖出后你便用灵力震碎三片草叶撒入池塘，再将乾坤土全部放入。¤Not bad, it truly is heaven's favor. Since that's the case, after digging out this soil, use spiritual energy to shatter three blades of grass and sprinkle them into the pond, then place all of the Primordial Chaos Soil inside.
正阳山处宁州西端，植被稀少环境恶劣，沙峰众多。你在其中跋涉多时，正值精疲力尽之际忽然走入一片水草丰茂的绿洲。¤Mount Rising Sun is located at the western end of Ningzhou, with sparse vegetation and harsh environment, and many sand dunes. After trekking for a long time, you suddenly walked into an oasis with lush water and grass, just when you were exhausted.
要离开正阳山吗？¤Do you want to leave Mt. Zhengyang?
既然暴露了，拿命来！！¤Since I've been exposed, come and take my life!
古神教的，你是束手就擒还是要吃点苦头啊？¤Are you going to surrender to the Ancient God Sect or do you want to suffer some consequences?
{xiaozi}，这是我教自己的事，再不滚蛋我要叫人了啊！！¤{xiaozi}, this is something I taught myself. If you don't leave, I will call someone!
对方瞳孔一缩。¤The other party's pupils contracted.
原来是化尘教的高徒，在下{FirstName}{LastName}，受白帝楼之托，前来看看贵教为何封山。¤I am {FirstName}{LastName}, a disciple of the Shifting Sand Sect. I have been entrusted by the White Emperor Pavilion to come and see why your sect has closed the mountain.
既然来此，那就进去看看吧，就我感知里面已经没有活人了。¤Since we're here, let's go in and take a look. As far as I can sense, there are no living people left inside.
突然传送阵亮起。¤Suddenly the teleportation array lit up.
{xiaozi}，你自己小心点，这化尘教自封山门，八成与这古神教有关。¤{xiaozi}, be careful yourself, this Shifting Sand Sect, which considers itself a closed sect, is probably related to the Ancient God Sect.
{xiaozi}，这正阳山是我化尘教地界，还不快滚？!¤{xiaozi}, this is the territory of my Shifting Sand Sect on Mount Yang. Why haven't you left yet?!
护法，你们回...嗯？小子，你是谁？¤Guardians, you guys go back... Hmm? Kid, who are you?
突然传送阵亮起，里面出来一个身穿化尘教服饰的修士¤Suddenly, the teleportation array lit up, and a cultivator dressed in the costume of the Shifting Sand Sect emerged from it.
你在魏无极的指挥下，修复了这个阵法。¤Under the command of Wei Wuji, you repaired this array.
依我所说行事¤Act according to what I say.
唉，你个臭{xiaozi}，这不过是最简单的传送阵，怎么连这点阵道修为都没有？¤Ah, you stinky {xiaozi}, this is just an easy teleportation array, how come you don't even have a little bit of cultivation in array dao?
老头？在吗?这个石碑¤Old man? Are you there? This stone monument.
...你感觉到眼前的的石碑，或有玄妙，但是也不抓不住重点。¤You feel that the stone monument in front of you has a profound meaning, but you can't grasp the key point.
看我修复它。¤Watch me fix it.
但以你对阵道的领悟，你能够分辨出这原是一个小型的传送阵，终点应该还是在正阳山之内。¤With your enlightenment of array dao, you can distinguish that this is originally a small teleportation array, and the endpoint should still be within Mt. Rising Sun.
眼前是数块平平无奇的石碑，但有人为破坏的痕迹。¤Before me are several ordinary-looking stone tablets with traces of destruction caused by someone.
（和那李天如出一辙，只是此人修为实在不堪，掩饰魔气都做不到，这一次任务还挺顺利。）¤(Just like Hanali Tian, except this person's cultivation is really poor, he can't even conceal his magic qi, but this mission went quite smoothly.)
{xiaozi}，感觉到了吗？¤{xiaozi}, do you feel it?
{xiaozi}，小心点这家伙体内气息不似正道。¤{xiaozi}, be careful, this guy's aura is not like that of the righteous path.
突然传送阵亮起，走出一个身穿化尘教服饰的修士。¤Suddenly the teleportation array lit up, and a cultivator wearing the costume of the Shifting Sand Sect walked out.
护法，你们回...嗯？{xiaozi}，你是谁？这正阳山是我化尘教地界，还不快滚!¤Protectors, you may leave... Huh? {xiaozi}, who are you? Mount Yang is within the territory of my Shifting Sand Sect, so leave quickly!
谨慎地将他的尸身转移到空地上后，你发现他原先所坐的地方露出了小巧的机关。¤After carefully moving his corpse to the open space, you discover a small mechanism exposed where he was originally sitting.
你再一次把目光转向了沙台，这一次你打算将无名修士从台上移下仔细调查一下。¤You once again turned your gaze towards the sand platform, this time intending to carefully investigate the nameless cultivator after removing them from the platform.
平淡无奇的矿灯，是修士们常用的照明设备，没什么特别之处。¤The plain and ordinary mining lamp is a common lighting device used by cultivators, and there is nothing particularly special about it.
正阳山处正是宁州与衡州相接处，自然多些歪门心思闯入宁州的不轨之徒。¤Mt. Rising Sun is precisely where Ningzhou and Hengzhou meet, and it naturally attracts some unscrupulous individuals with crooked intentions into Ningzhou.
我看此人道袍款式似是化尘教中人...许是哪位长老不幸殒命吧。¤I see that this person's Dao robe style is similar to someone from the Shifting Sand Sect... Perhaps it is a certain elder who unfortunately perished.
罢了，这沙坑里也没剩下什么珍贵的东西，你{xiaozi}还是找找怎么出去吧。¤Never mind, there isn't anything precious left in this sand pit. You {xiaozi} should focus on finding a way out.
但此地也没什么特别值得注意的地方，只有矿灯和沙台是这修士布置的，不知其中是否有什么奥妙。¤But there is nothing particularly noteworthy about this place, only the miner's lamps and the sand platform were arranged by the cultivator here. I don't know if there is any profundity in them.
说来也怪，这附近好像魔修人数众多，先前化尘教封锁门派似乎也是为了除魔卫道。¤It's strange to say, but there seems to be a large number of demonic cultivators in this area. Previously, the Shifting Sand Sect blocked off the sects in order to eliminate demons and uphold justice.
你无视了魏无极的插科打诨，抱着侥幸的态度将储物袋内的东西一一掏出，却发现除了拓着此人修炼心得的玉简外竟没有一件完好的物品。¤You disregarded Wei Wuji's jokes and, with a lucky attitude, took out everything from the storage pouch one by one, only to find that there was not a single intact item except for the jade scroll on which this person's cultivation experiences were recorded.
别说，你这运气真是差到家了。¤Don't say it, your luck is really bad.
或许是因为敌手神通的关系，储物袋也受到了一定程度的损伤，里面不少宝物都毁于一旦。¤Perhaps due to the opponent's divine skill, the storage pouch also suffered some damage, and many treasures inside were destroyed in an instant.
你心怀敬畏地探查着修士的尸体，从他紧攥的手中发现了一个储物袋。¤You cautiously searched the cultivator's body and discovered a storage pouch clenched tightly in his hand.
看来此人生前曾与魔修殊死搏斗，因伤势过重藏匿在这沙坑中，没想到回天乏力最终还是陨落于此。¤It seems that this person had fought to the death with a demonic cultivator before his death. Due to his severe injuries, he hid in this sand pit and eventually succumbed to his wounds, unable to make a comeback.
厚实的沙台上刻下了几行文字，但经过时间磨砺能看清的文字少之又少，你靠着只言片语努力地读取着其中的讯息。¤On the thick sand table were carved a few lines of text, but after the erosion of time, there were few clear words that could be seen. You struggled to read the information from the fragmented phrases.
他的道袍上布满伤痕，或许损毁之前是件不错的防御法器，但现在看来明显变成了一堆破布。¤His Daoist robe was covered in scars. Perhaps before being damaged, it was a decent defence spell tool, but now it clearly looked like a pile of rags.
老头儿，你刚刚说运气好不会就是指这个吧？¤Old man, when you said 'luck is good, won't happen', were you referring to this?
死人而已，有什么好怕的。我看这修士生前修为应当不差，至少是金丹中期。人死如灯灭，他可带不走身上的功法丹药法器，你且搜罗一下看看此人身上怀揣何物。¤It's just a dead person, what's there to be afraid of? I think this cultivator's cultivation level before death should not have been bad, at least mid golden core. People die like a candle extinguishing, he can't take away the techniques, pills, and magic tools on his body. You should search and see what this person was carrying.
听了魏无极的话，你也开始好奇这位修士留下的遗物。对着干尸行礼后，你开始小心地翻看他的行装。¤After hearing Wei Wuji's words, you also become curious about the relics left behind by this cultivator. After bowing to the dry corpse, you carefully start to search through his belongings.
这……¤This...
为验证你的猜测，你小心翼翼地凑上前去。果不其然，这名修士已经仙去，尸体在大漠独特的环境下变得干燥僵硬。¤To verify your guess, you cautiously approached. As expected, the cultivator has already ascended to become an immortal, and his body has become dry and stiff due to the unique environment of the desert.
若不是龟息术...这名修士莫非...？¤If it weren't for turtle breath technique... Could this cultivator be...?
你仔细地观察着那道人影，发现他竟连呼吸的起伏都没有。¤You carefully observe that figure, and find that he doesn't even have the slightest fluctuation in his breathing.
一具失去水分的干尸直勾勾地注视着你，让你不禁冷汗直流。¤A dried-up mummy is staring straight at you, making you break out in a cold sweat.
你把心一横，凑上前去。原来那修士并非不愿回应，而是无法回应！¤You gather up your courage and approach. It turns out that the cultivator wasn't unwilling to respond, but unable to respond!
你叹了口气，开始认真地审视四周。本应漆黑的沙坑却在角落里人为安置了照明用的矿石，你借着微弱的光亮看到不远处似乎有人盘坐于台上。¤You sighed and began to carefully examine your surroundings. In a corner of the pitch-black sand pit, there were artificially placed mineral stones used for lighting. Using the faint light, you saw someone sitting cross-legged on a platform not far away.
在下{FirstName}{LastName}，因意外不慎落入此地，不知道友可否行个方便告知在下出去的方法？¤I am {FirstName}{LastName}. Due to an unexpected accident, I have fallen into this place. I don't know if my fellow daoist could kindly inform me of a way to leave.
那人影一动不动，不知是未听清你的话还是故意为之。¤The figure remained motionless, it was unclear whether they couldn't hear what you were saying or if they were doing it on purpose.
真是天道眷顾，你这{xiaozi}这回走运了。¤Truly, the heavens have favored you. You, {xiaozi} have been lucky this time.
除了还活着，掉进这地方有什么运气可谈？¤Apart from being alive, what luck is there to talk about by falling into this place?
哼，朽木不可雕，你自己看看周围吧。¤Hmph, rotten wood cannot be carved. Look around yourself.
魏无极说完便回到了剑里，任凭你怎么呼唤也不应答。¤Wei Wujishuo finished speaking and then returned to the sword, no matter how you called, there was no response. Note
不好，{xiaozi}快跑，这是魔修的气息！¤Not good, {xiaozi} run fast, this is the aura of a demonic cultivator!
为避免打草惊蛇，你装出一副不知情的样子向另一个方向走去，没想到脚下一个不稳，栽进了一旁的沙坑中。¤To avoid alerting the enemy, you pretended to be unaware and walked in the opposite direction. However, you accidentally stumbled and fell into a nearby sandpit.
奇怪，腿怎么抽不出来？¤Strange, why can't I pull my leg out?
遁术丝毫没有起到作用，你随着挣扎愈陷愈深。原本平整的沙子逐渐塌陷成流动的旋涡，将你拉向更深处。¤The escape technique did not work at all, and you sink deeper and deeper as you struggle. The originally smooth sand gradually collapsed into a flowing whirlpool, pulling you towards a deeper place.
{xiaozi}，快醒醒。¤{xiaozi}, wake up quickly.
在魏无极急切的呼唤下，你睁开双眼。原来刚才的流沙下自成一方天地，你因此幸免于难。¤Upon Wei Wuji's urgent call, you open your eyes. It turns out that under the flowing sand just now, there was a world of its own, and as a result, you were spared from danger.
“......这老头脾气还挺大。”¤The old man's temper is quite big.
你刚刚踏入此地，就感受到一股强烈的不适感。周围的灵气不知为何散发出令人生厌的气息，你尝试着呼唤魏无极。¤You just stepped into this place and felt a strong sense of discomfort. The spiritual energy around here emitted a nauseating smell, and you tried to call out Wei Wuji.
一条粗如成年男子大臂的蛇冲了出来，挡住了你们的去路。¤A snake as thick as an adult man's bicep sprang out and blocked your path.
怎么又遇见妖兽了！¤Encountered a monster again!
这股药香...是穿心莲！！¤This medicinal fragrance... is the Pureheart Lotus!
这在三品仙草中也算得上是极为稀有的...没想到能在这里找到。¤In third grade immortal herbs, this can be considered extremely rare...I didn't expect to find it here.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，这几株穿心莲我找了很久，若是你愿意全部让给我，我可以用一枚“清蕴丹”和你交换。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, I have been searching for these few Pureheart Lotuses for a long time. If you are willing to give them all to me, I can exchange them with a Panacea Pill.
你意下如何？¤What do you think?
那就多谢{FirstName}{xiongdi}了！¤Thank you {FirstName} {xiongdi}!
没想到{FirstName}{xiongdi}也对炼丹有兴趣...¤I didn't expect {FirstName} {xiongdi} to be interested in alchemy...
也罢，那咱两就按之前说好的，一人一半分了吧。¤Alright then, let's split it as we agreed before, half each.
和来时粗糙的石壁不同，这条岔路铺满了青色的石砖，似乎曾有人居住。¤Unlike the coarse stone walls when they came, this fork in the road is paved with cyan-colored bricks, as if someone had once lived there.
你们借着照明法器微弱的光缓缓前行，终于来到道路尽头。¤You slowly move forward with the dim light of the illuminating magic tool and finally reach the end of the road.
洞府？！这里的妖兽难不成有人操纵？¤Cave abode?! Are the spirit beasts here being manipulated by someone?
支持壁灯的能源还没用尽，摇曳的灵力火焰照亮了整个石室。青白的地砖光亮如新，但周围的石台却落满灰尘。¤The energy supporting the wall lamp has not been exhausted, and the flickering spiritual flame illuminates the entire stone room. The green and white floor tiles shine like new, but the surrounding stone platforms are covered in dust.
你们看着眼前略有怪异的景象提高了警惕，小心地探索着石室。¤You all looked at the slightly strange scene in front of you and raised your guard, carefully exploring the stone room.
哎！{FirstName}{xiongdi}快来！¤Hey! {FirstName}, {xiongdi}, come quickly!
你们两个一同破坏了禁制，将里面存放的东西一股脑拿了出来。¤Both of you destroyed the restriction together and took out everything stored inside all at once.
一个{color=#d0380a}通体漆黑的药瓶{/color}吸引了倪旭欣的全部注意，他打开瓶塞闻了闻，便转过头直勾勾地盯着你，看得你毛骨悚然。¤A completely black medicine bottle {color=#d0380a}caught Ni Xuxin's attention{/color}. He opened the lid and sniffed it, then turned his head and stared at you relentlessly, making you feel creepy.
倪兄，你没事吧...？¤Brother Ni, are you okay...?
{xiongdi}见谅，实不相瞒...，我有个小小的癖好。¤I apologize, brothers, to be frank... I have a small fetish. 
什么癖好？杀人夺宝？我要不还是离他远一点吧......¤What hobby? Killing people and taking treasures? Maybe I should keep away from him...
你不动声色地往后退了一步...¤You silently took a step back...
我话还没说完，{xiongdi}你把我想成什么人了！¤My words have not been finished yet, {xiongdi} you have misunderstood me!
是收集丹药的癖好！¤It's a hobby of collecting pills!
就是收集不同的丹药......¤It's just collecting different pills....
各种丹药我都喜欢在身上备一些，以防不时之需。¤I like to keep various pills on me at all times, just in case.
我还从来没见到过这个类型的丹药，{xiongdi}若愿意把它让给我，剩下的东西你可以全都拿走！¤I have never seen this type of pill before, {xiongdi} if you are willing to let me have it, you can have everything else!
你把手一挥，示意倪旭欣你并不在意此事。¤You wave your hand, indicating to Ni Xuxin that you don't care about this matter.
正当你们想要四处转转，看看还有什么没有发现的机关禁制之时，只听魏无极突然传音道...¤Just as you were about to wander around and see if there were any hidden mechanisms or restrictions, you suddenly heard a transmission from Wei Wuji...
不好，快退！¤Not good, quickly retreat!
说时迟那时快，一人高的尾稍如同横扫而来的铁壁，重重将倪旭欣击飞开来。¤Time seemed to slow down, but in an instant, a tail as tall as a person swept over like an iron wall and heavily knocked Nie Xuxin away.
这妖兽的气息...恐怕已有筑基巅峰修为。¤The aura of this spirit beast... I'm afraid it has already reached the peak of foundation building cultivation.
你听了魏无极的话，焦急地回头看向倪旭欣。只见他虽然胸口血肉模糊，竟然还能勉强站立，也不\r知是用了什么神通。¤After listening to Wei Wuji's words, you anxiously turned your head to look at Ni Xuxin. Despite his chest being a mess of flesh and blood, he managed to barely stand, and I don't know if he used some kind of divine skill.
{xiongdi}，咳……对不住了，再帮我争取{color=#d0380a}三{/color}招的时间……咳咳……我有办法带你离开这里。¤Brothers, cough... sorry, please help me buy {color=#d0380a}three{/color} more moments... cough cough... I have a way to take you out of here.
这边好像是洞府主人留下的资源！¤It seems like the resources left behind by the master of this cave are over here!
费了咱们老大的劲才找到这里，我倒要看看这储物法阵里放了什么宝贝。¤It took a lot of effort from our boss to find this place. I want to see what treasures are stored in this storage magic array.
{xiaozi}，你刚刚拿到的丹药似乎有临战提升防御的功效。把{color=#d0380a}丹药服下{/color}，只是支撑三个回合的话，应该还是做得到的！¤{xiaozi}, the pill you just obtained seems to have the effect of increasing defense during imminent battles. If you {color=#d0380a}take the pill{/color} and only rely on it for three rounds, you should still be able to do it!
多谢师姐。¤Thank you senior sister.
不错，此潭天然成于谷内深处，迄今约有万年历史。其中玄妙待你前往清月谭一观便知，不过能够领悟多少还是看你个人的机遇。¤Not bad, this pond was naturally formed deep within the valley and has a history of about ten thousand years. Its secrets await your visit to the Clear Moon Palace, but how much you will be able to comprehend will depend on your personal opportunities.
清月谭？¤Qingyue Tan?
此乃清月令，我派执掌的后山中有一清月谭，持有此令方可前往潭中。¤This is the Lake Bright Moon Decree. In my sect, there is a Clear Moon Pool located in the Back Mountain. Only those who possess this decree are allowed to enter the pool.
你既已成内门弟子，分内的奖励我现在便交给你。¤Since you have become an inner disciple, I will now give you the appropriate reward.
你走到凝霜仙子身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Fairy Frost Glaze's side and perform the Rites of Passage to become her disciple.
咳咳，从今天开始你就是我的徒弟了，在你{color=#d0380a}结丹之前{/color}，可要好好的听为师的话。¤Cough cough, starting today you are my disciple. Before you core, you must listen to your teacher's words.
此剑唤作星河，是我筑基时所炼制的武器，如今已经用不上，就送给你了~¤This sword is called Celestial River, it is the weapon I refined during my foundation building. Now that I no longer need it, I am giving it to you.
只见她笑着向你点了点头。¤I saw her smile and nod at you.
此剑，名为初寒，乃为师年轻时所炼制，用起来颇为顺手。今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This sword, named First Cold, was crafted by me when I was young and has proven to be quite convenient to use. Today, I shall present it to you as a gift for our first meeting.
此匣，名为漪涟，乃是我年轻时所炼制的武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This box, named Ripples, is a weapon I crafted in my youth. Today, I present it to you as a gift for our meeting.
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一把剑，递给了你。¤After speaking, the master took out a sword from the storage pouch and handed it to you.
说罢，师父从储物袋中拿出一个匣子，递给了你。¤Having said that, the master took out a box from the storage pouch and handed it to you.
你走到润熹仙子身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Fairy Dawnrain and perform the Rites of Passage as a sign of respect for her as your teacher.
嗯…希望你成为一个出色的人！¤Hmm...I hope you become an excellent person!
她略带微笑地看了另外两位长老一眼。那两位长老也是相视一笑，对此毫不在意。¤She glanced at the other two elders with a slight smile. The two elders also exchanged a smile and didn't care about it.
不错颖儿，辛苦你了。¤Pretty good Ying'er, you have worked hard.
按大比的规矩，你可以从自行选择拜入在座的任意一名长老门下继续修行。颖儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤According to the rules of the grand competition, you can choose to be disciple of any elder present to continue your cultivation. Ying'er, please introduce the situation of all the elders to your {shidi}.
颖儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你师妹介绍一下吧。¤Yinger, please introduce the situation of all the elders to your younger martial sister. 
凝霜仙子为{color=#d0380a}冰{/color}派长老，主修《冰魄经》的她操控冰的能力宁州无人能出其右。¤As the {color=#d0380a}Ice{/color} Sect elder, Fairy Frost Glaze, who specializes in the 《Ice Soul Manual》, possesses unparalleled control over ice in Ningzhou.
师尊管辖{color=#d0380a}剑派{/color}，是掌门的亲传弟子。年纪轻轻就已经到达了元婴期。她独创的《乾坤化剑诀》也成为了我派秘传功法。¤The shizun oversees the {color=#d0380a}sword sect{/color} and is the direct disciple of the master. At a young age, she has already reached the nascent soul stage. Her original 《qiankun sword transformation skill》 has also become our sect's secret technique.
润熹仙子主修的《水灵妙法》能活用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力，一经施展便是连绵不断的攻势，极难防备。¤Fairy Dawnrain focuses on cultivating the Water Spirit Wonderful Skill, which can utilize the power of the Five Elements to produce an unrelenting attack that is very difficult to defend against.
你走到玄伶仙子身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Fairy Darkmind and perform the rites of passage by bowing and accepting her as your master.
做我的亲传弟子可比做那些劳什子长老的亲传弟子有意思多了，你可愿入我门下？¤Would you like to become my personal disciple rather than becoming a disciple of those laborious elders? It's much more interesting. Are you willing to join my sect?
话音未落一道剑气破空而过，将那些莲花击成碎屑。¤As soon as the words fell, a sword qi broke through the sky and shattered the lotus flowers into fragments.
你侧目一看，玄伶仙子指尖凝气，一寸蓝芒似剑刃般聚于指上。¤You take a side glance and see Fairy Darkmind condensing qi at her fingertips, a one-inch blue light gathering like a blade on her finger.
雕虫小技，不过尔尔罢了。若是想先一步踏入仙途，自然应当入剑派修行。¤Carving insects is just a small skill, nothing special. If you want to step into the immortal path earlier, you should naturally practice in the sword sect.
两位师妹，依我看不如让这位小友自己选择拜入哪派，你们看如何？¤Two sisters, in my opinion, why don't we let this young friend choose which sect to join? What do you think?
此等资质连本座也有些心动，可惜本座如今修为已达元婴期瓶颈，要专心为之后的天劫做准备。¤This kind of aptitude even makes me a bit interested, unfortunately my cultivation has already reached the bottleneck of the Nascent Soul stage, so I must focus on preparing for the Heavenly Tribulation that will come after.
禀掌门师尊，今年的招收的外门弟子中，收取到了一名资质鉴定为天灵根的弟子。¤Reporting to the master, this year's intake of outer disciples has obtained a disciple with aptitude assessed as a Heavenly Spirit Root.
的确是纯净的天灵根，没有一丝一毫杂灵根，这点我看的清清楚楚。¤It is indeed a pure heavenly spirit root, without any impurities of spiritual roots. I can see this very clearly.
此等资质自是要拜入冰派修习御冰之术。¤Such aptitude must be worshipped into the Ice Sect to practice the art of controlling ice.
凝霜仙子轻轻一挥，几朵剔透的冰莲出现在你的周围。¤With a gentle wave, Fairy Frost Glaze creates several translucent ice lotuses around you.
这位师妹看来已经通过入门测试了，你先去神兵阁领取符器与门派装束，再回来找我。¤This sister seems to have passed the entry test. Go to the divine warrior pavilion to receive your runic weapon and sect attire, then come back to me.
接下来我将为你们开启剑阵，能否成为我派弟子全看你们个人的实力与机缘了。¤Next, I will initiate the sword array for you. Whether you can become a disciple of my sect depends on your individual strength and opportunities.
看样子想和大师姐说上话要先排队才行了，不如乘机问一下前面的同门在此等候的目的。¤It looks like you have to line up if you want to talk to Senior Sister first, so you might as well take the opportunity to ask the fellow disciples in front of you why they are waiting here.
我派择选弟子历来有两条要求，一是必须为女性。¤first, they must be female.
不久，接引弟子将着你们这些未能通过初筛的人送回了山下。¤Soon, the disciples in charge of reception will send those who failed the initial screening back down the mountain.
三十日之期已过，原本热闹的宗门广场此时冷清了不少。大多数人都未通过星河剑阵的检测，被门派执事送回了山下。¤The thirty-day deadline has passed, and the once bustling sect plaza is now a lot quieter. Most people did not pass the test of the Celestial River Sword Array and were sent back down the mountain by the sect officials.
你对水之道的感悟略微提升了。¤Your enlightenment towards the water dao has slightly increased.
切记，你们只有三十日时间。逾期未通过测试者，无论资质如何我派也不会通融。¤Remember, you only have thirty days. Those who fail to pass the test after the deadline, regardless of their aptitude, will not be given any leniency by our sect.
她递给你一块玉白色令牌，触手温润厚实，上面似有若无的灵力波动给人一种中正宁和之感。¤She hands you a jade-white token, warm and solid to the touch, with a faint spiritual energy pulsing on its surface, giving off a sense of serenity and balance.
你决定¤You decide.
稍后会有长老带队引领诸位前往天魔眼，{shidi}若无要事可一同出发。¤Later on, an elder will lead everyone to the Heavenly Devil's Eye. {shidi} can leave together if there is no urgent matter.
很好，相信留下来的人都对自己的实力很有信心。我是慕容颖，星河剑派的首席弟子。¤Very good, I believe the people who stayed behind all have confidence in their own strength. I am Murong Ying, the chief disciple of Celestial River Sword Sect.
宗门大殿前一道蓝光冲天而起，慕容颖所站立的高台完全被剑光笼罩。¤A blue light rose up into the sky in front of the great hall of the clan, completely enveloping the platform where Murong Ying stood with sword light.
你来到宗门广场，只见广场前殿已经布好了一座巨大的阵法。此刻，阵法周围已是人山人海，大师姐慕容颖立于阵法中心似是有事情宣布。¤You arrived at the sect plaza and saw a huge array set up in front of the main hall. At this moment, the area around the array was packed with people and senior sister Murong Ying stood at the center of the array seeming to have something to announce.
我再核实最后一遍，人群中可还有五灵根修士？¤Let me double check one last time, are there still cultivators with the five spiritual roots among the crowd?
恭喜诸位通过测试的师妹，接下来本门执事会告知你们入门相关的事宜。¤Congratulations to all the sisters who have passed the test. Next, the sect's administration will inform you of matters related to joining.
步入星河剑派的宗门广场，绵柔的水系灵气似有若无地萦绕着你。葱茏丰茂的草木映衬着萝兰色建筑群，典雅又别致，使人眼前一亮。¤Entering the Sect Plaza of the Celestial River Sword Sect, a gentle and elusive water-based spiritual energy lingers around you. The lush greenery of the surrounding plants sets off the elegant and unique lilac-colored buildings, which is eye-catching and pleasing.
本届宗门大比即将开始，有意参加比赛的师妹将与我通过这座传送阵到达金虹剑派。如有此意请做好准备来到殿前阵法处，一炷香后我便会启动阵法。¤The upcoming clan competition is about to begin, and sisters who wish to participate in the competition will use this teleportation array to reach the Radiant Sword Sect with me. If you wish to participate, please prepare yourself and come to the front hall array. After one stick of incense, I will activate the array.
不消多时，一位身着华丽服饰的冷面女子登上大殿前高台，看样子便是她来主持本次入门测试。¤In no time, a cold-faced woman dressed in gorgeous costume ascended the high platform in front of the hall, seemingly to preside over the entrance examination.
若有人谎报灵根参与测试，在剑阵中遭遇什么不测我派概不负责。¤If someone falsely reports their spiritual root and participates in the test, they will be solely responsible for any unexpected incidents they may encounter in the sword array.
你跟随接引弟子踏上一旁的灵台，缓缓自山谷升上山巅。随着渺渺仙雾逐渐散去，瑰丽庄严的宗门建筑逐渐映入你的眼帘。¤You follow the guided disciple onto the spirit platform next to you, slowly ascending from the valley to the peak of the mountain. As the vague immortal mist gradually dissipates, the magnificent and solemn clan buildings gradually come into view before your eyes.
广场上一阵骚动，过了片刻，一些人陆续离开星河剑派，看来应当是未达到要求。¤There was a commotion on the square, after a while, some people left the Celestial River Sword Sect one after another, it seemed that they had not met the requirements.
宗门广场较往日热闹许多，大师姐像是在分发某样物品。她面前身的修士排成长龙，放眼望去就连几位平日醉心修练的师姐师妹也站在其中。¤The Sect Plaza is much more lively than usual, and Senior Sister is distributing some items. The cultivators in front of her are lined up in a long queue, and even some of the senior sisters and junior sisters who are usually obsessed with their cultivation are among them.
你第一次来到大宗门的紧张心情在这绰丽婉约的景色中缓和了几分。¤Your first visit to the main clan eased your nervousness a bit amidst the splendid and graceful scenery.
你认真地想了想，还是觉得性命更为重要，毕竟长生的基础是活着。¤After seriously considering, you still believe that life is more important, after all, the foundation of eternal life is to be alive.
你隐隐约约在浩瀚似海的光幕中瞥见慕容颖的身形，只见她抬手掐了个剑诀，下一秒你便失去了意识。¤You vaguely saw Murong Ying's figure within the vast light curtain, and only saw her lift her hand to form a sword gesture. The next second, you lost consciousness.
首先感谢各位不辞辛劳来到此处参与入门测试，接下来请务必听清在下所讲的每一句话，这将直接关系到诸位能否进入本门。¤Firstly, thank you all for coming here to participate in the beginner's test without hesitation. Please listen carefully to every sentence I say next, as this will directly affect whether you can enter our sect.
二是灵根资质必须为四灵根及以上。¤The second requirement is that the spiritual root aptitude must be quad spirit root or higher.
宗门广场较往日热闹许多，大师姐像是在分发某样物品。她面前的修士排成长龙，放眼望去就连几位平日醉心修练的师姐师妹也站在其中。¤The sect plaza is much more lively than usual, and Senior Sister is distributing some items. The cultivators in front of her are lined up in a long queue, with even a few Senior Sisters and Junior Sisters who are usually obsessed with cultivation standing among them.
一炷香时间已过，接下来我将开启传送阵带领各位师妹前去金虹剑派。望师妹们多加努力，争取在本届宗门大比中拔得头筹。¤One incense stick of time has passed, and now I will activate the teleportation array to lead all the sisters to the Radiant Sword sect. I hope that my sisters will work hard and strive to win first place in the clan competition of this year.
三十日期满，没有通过测试的诸位道友与本派无缘，就随着外务执事一起下山去吧。¤Once the thirty-day period is up, fellow daoists who have not passed the test will have no connection with our sect and may leave the mountain along with the deacon of external affairs.
请问师妹，大家聚集于此是为了......？¤May I ask, sister, why is everyone gathered here?
面对慕容颖的威迫，很快又有几个人离开了人群。¤Faced with the threat from Murong Ying, several people quickly left the crowd.
你二人相谈甚欢，只觉时间飞逝，很快就来到大师姐面前。¤You two chatted happily and felt that time flew by, and soon arrived in front of senior sister.
师妹，你且随我来。¤Junior Sister, come with me for now.
诸位道友，今天是我们星河剑派招收入门弟子的第四天。¤Everyone fellow daoists, today is our Celestial River Sword Sect's fourth day of accepting entry-level disciples.
{shixiong}可是刚历练结束？猎魔试炼不日开启，大师姐正在发放{color=#d0380a}天魔令{/color}给即将启程的弟子呢。¤Senior Brother, have you just finished your training? The Demon Hunting Trials will begin soon and Senior Sister is currently distributing the Heavenly Demon Orders to the disciples who are about to depart.
唉，你这次猎魔试炼的表现实在拖我派的后腿，此后可千万勤加修炼，切莫再如此丢本座的脸面。¤Ah, your performance in this demon hunting trial has really dragged our faction down. From now on, you must diligently cultivate and never again embarrass our faction like this.
望各位师妹入门后能勤加修炼，争取早日达到{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}修为，成为我派的内门弟子，切莫辜负掌门对你们的期待。¤I hope all younger sisters can diligently cultivate after entering the school, strive to reach the cultivation level of Foundation Establishment as soon as possible, become inner disciples of our sect, and not disappoint the expectations of the master.
这之后将由门派剑阵来测试你们是否有入门资格，我会在一旁确保你们的安全。¤Afterwards, the sect's sword array will test your eligibility for entry. I will ensure your safety on the side.
剑灵......星河剑派这剑阵倒是有点意思，也只有这种底蕴深厚的宗门敢把剑灵当做消耗品用于测试弟子了。¤Sword spirit......The Celestial River sword sect's sword array is quite interesting. Only a powerful clan like this would dare to use sword spirits as consumables to test their disciples.
一阵蓝光闪过，你回到了宗门大殿。¤A burst of blue light flashed and you returned to the great hall of the clan.
竟是天灵根...师妹，接下来的测试就交由你负责了，我先去禀告掌门师尊。¤It's actually a heavenly spirit root... Senior apprentice sister, I'll leave the rest of the testing to you. I'll go report to the sect leader and master.
你硬着头皮冲上前去，孰料屏障并没有影响你的行动，你轻而易举地到达了对面。¤You bravely rushed forward, but to your surprise, the barrier didn't affect your movement, and you easily reached the other side.
不错，今年竟能招到双灵根的弟子，你过去吧。¤Not bad, this year we were actually able to recruit disciples with double spirit roots. You can go over there.
你硬着头皮冲上前去，却只感受到了轻微的阻力，你较为轻松地到达了对面。¤You charged forward with a stiff scalp, but only felt a slight resistance and arrived on the other side relatively easily.
你硬着头皮冲上前去，费了好大一番力气才冲过屏障。¤You bravely rushed forward, and it took a lot of effort to finally break through the barrier.
你硬着头皮冲上前去，被屏障狠狠地弹回来，结结实实地落在了地上。¤You bravely rushed forward, but the barrier fiercely bounced you back, causing you to fall heavily on the ground.
一道映呈着层层水波的灵气屏障挡住了你的去路，想必这就是慕容颖口中的测试之一。你决定¤A spirit energy barrier, with layers of water ripples, appears and blocks your path. This must be one of the tests Murong Ying mentioned. You decide...
一道映呈着层层水波的灵气屏障，只要灵根资质优上便可以通过。¤A spiritual energy barrier, reflecting layers of water ripples, can be passed with superior spiritual root aptitude.
小友，入门测试乃是严肃大事，你仍需独自走完，循路向前便是出口，我在剑阵外等你。¤Young friend, the entrance test is a serious matter. You still need to complete it on your own. The exit is ahead of you, just follow the path. I'll be waiting for you outside the Sword Array.
一道锋锐的剑灵向你发起了攻击。¤A sharp sword spirit has launched an attack towards you.
嗯，应该是某种冥想室。¤Hmm, it should be some kind of meditation room.
这间小屋...待我仔细研究研究。¤This little cabin...I will carefully study it.
这条路深处似乎有非常强大的剑灵存在...当然是相对于你而言很强大。¤There seems to be a very powerful sword spirit deep in this road... Of course, that is relatively powerful compared to you.
依我看...这光幕应该是某种禁制，或许与有灵根资质有关。¤In my opinion...this light screen should be some kind of restriction, perhaps related to those with spiritual root aptitude.
怎么啦，丫头？¤What happened, girl?
你面前是一个岔路口，左边能依稀看到蓝色的光幕，中间似乎有着剑灵在游荡，右边则只有一间小屋。你决定{w}{w=0.5}¤In front of you is a fork in the road, on the left you can vaguely see a blue barrier, in the middle there seems to be a sword spirit wandering, and on the right there is only a small hut. You decide.
你在一片剑光构成的水色静室内若有所悟，屈膝入定。¤You kneel down in a quiet room composed of sword light and water, seeming to have gained some enlightenment.
善，此子悟性甚佳。师尊曾嘱咐我在此入定的修士可直接纳入外门，不必强求其通过屏障。¤Good, this child's comprehension is excellent. The Master has instructed me that cultivators who meditate here and possess such comprehension can be directly accepted into the outer sect without having to pass through the shield.
一间简陋的静室，并无特别之处。¤A simple quiet room with nothing special.
一道灵动的剑灵出其不意地出现在你面前。¤A lively sword spirit unexpectedly appeared in front of you.
大哥别急，我们先招待完客人，再定夺这宝贝的归属如何？¤Don't worry big brother, let's attend to our guests first before deciding who will own this treasure.
若是普通法器也就算了，这可是件上等的法宝，我怎么会甘心让给你？以大哥你的天赋，这辈子是不可能结丹了，不如成全小弟我，去寻那长生之道。¤If it were a normal magic tool, then that would be acceptable. However, this is a high-level artifact. How could I willingly give it to you? With your talent, big brother, you will never achieve core formation in this lifetime. It is better for me to fulfill my dreams and search for the path to eternal life.
{vpunch=10,0.5}什么人？¤Who goes there?
就这样贸然和他们战斗不是上策，我还是得做好准备再来。¤Just fighting them like this recklessly is not the best option, I still need to prepare better before coming again.
这次一定要好好教训这帮禾山派修士。¤This time, we must teach these cultivators from Mt. Harvest a good lesson.
嘿，那里来了一个。¤Hey, there's one coming.
这“沂山双鬼”少说也有三十几年的交情了，如今居然为了一件宝物争的不可开交，这必定不是寻常法器。¤The 'Mt. Yi Twin Ghosts' have been friends for at least thirty years. Now they are fiercely fighting over a treasure, which must not be an ordinary magic tool.
（为了件不知道作用的法宝，犯不着去惹上一个元婴期修士...）¤(For the sake of an unknown artifact, there is no need to provoke a cultivator in the nascent soul stage...)
哼，真恶心。¤Hmph, really disgusting.
桀桀桀桀....又有新鲜的魂魄自己送上门来了。¤Kekekeke....there are fresh souls coming to my door again.
咳咳...师傅他，不会...放过...¤Ahem... Master, he won't spare you...
少废话，看招！¤Less talk, watch the move!
哈哈哈，什么宝贝能让沂山双鬼争成这样，不如拿出来让我也看看？¤Ha ha ha, what treasure could make the Mt. Yi twin ghosts compete like this? Why not bring it out and let me take a look?
你...你居然敢暗算我...¤You...How dare you betray me...
嗯，这便是了，待大哥我回去参悟几天，有了此宝，你我兄弟二人合力，日后必能纵横天下，哈哈哈哈哈哈。¤Well, that's it then. When I go back and meditate for a few days, with this treasure in hand, the two of us brothers will be able to dominate the world in the future, hahaha.
这些禾山道的修士真不把我们沂山派放在眼里，居然敢大摇大摆地在我们的地界儿上闹事。¤These cultivators from Mt. Harvest Sect really don't put our Mt. Yi Sect in their eyes. They actually dare to cause trouble in our territory.
大哥我也有好几种独门的手法，给大哥我试试，总好过你一个人瞎琢磨。¤I also have several unique techniques, big brother. Let me try them out for you. It's better than you blindly figuring things out alone.
桀桀桀....臭{xiaozi}上次在我们这儿吃的苦头还不够？¤Jiejieje… Stinky {xiaozi}, haven't you suffered enough the last time you were here? 
还是眼前的宝贝重要，只要不被人看到，谁会知道这事是我干的？¤Isn't the treasure in front of us more important? As long as no one sees it, who will know that I did it?
（这沂山双鬼颇难对付，我还是不要让他们发现为好...）¤(The Mt. Yi Twin Ghosts are quite difficult to deal with, it's better not to let them discover me...)
这件法宝可是我们一起得手的，有了这件法宝，你我二人合力，面对金丹期的修士也能有一拼之力。你将之把持了有什么用？若不参详出用法来，藏在你手上也不过是废物一件。¤The artifact we obtained together is very useful. With this artifact, the two of us can team up and have the power to compete with cultivators in the golden core stage. What's the use of you holding onto it? If you don't figure out how to use it, it's just a useless item in your hands.
{vpunch=10,0.5}啊！！！¤Ah!!!
我看我还是在这附近的山头转转，看看能不能抓到一两个落单的。¤I think I'll just wander around these nearby hills and see if I can catch one or two who are alone.
这沂山派好歹也是个有筑基期修士的大门派，我还是不要惊动太多人比较好。¤The Mt. Yi Sect, after all, is a major sect with Foundation Establishment cultivators. It's better for me not to attract too much attention.
还是做好准备再来吧。¤Better be prepared before coming.
大哥，你我相交也有三四十年了，小弟我你还信不过么？等小弟再试几种法门，若是都不成，再换大哥你来。若是小弟试成了，自然也会教给大哥。¤Big brother, we've known each other for thirty or forty years. Can't you trust me yet? Let me try a few more methods, and if they don't work, you can take over. If I succeed, I will naturally teach you as well.
没想到这沂山双鬼背后还有一个修为如此高深的前辈，我该怎么办？¤I didn't expect that the Mt. Yi twin ghosts would have a senior with such advanced cultivation behind them. What should I do?
哼，找死！¤Hmph, asking for death!
大哥多虑了，小弟能有什么私心？大哥若真想试试自己的法门，拿去便是了。¤Brother is overly worried, how could I have any ulterior motives? If Brother really wants to try his own methods, then go ahead and do so.
哈哈哈哈，师傅他这么多年不见踪影，算算时间，也该到渡劫的时候了，还能有心思管你我这点小事？¤Hahaha, Master hasn't been seen for so many years. Considering the time, it's also time for tribulation. How could he have the intention to care about our small matters?
哼，那边的小友看了那么久好戏，也该出手了吧。¤Hmph, the young friend over there has watched the good show for so long, it's time to take action.
{vpunch=10,0.5}（糟糕，原来早就被发现了）¤({vpunch=10,0.5} )
你已经试了那么多次，也不见有什么新手段。我每次问你要，你都推脱不肯，不是有私心是什么？¤You have tried so many times, but there doesn't seem to be any new tactics. Every time I ask you for it, you refuse to do so with excuses. Is there any hidden motive behind it?
哦？这倒是罕见，我派已经近百年未有如此资质的弟子加入了。不如就让这位小友拜入我门下如何？¤Oh? This is rare. It has been almost a hundred years since a disciple with such aptitude has joined our sect. Why don't we let this young friend become a disciple of our sect?
{FirstName}{LastName}，你可曾听说过“天魔眼”？¤{FirstName} {LastName}, have you ever heard of the Heavenly Devil's Eye? 
修练《凝沙诀》的鸢本仙子擅于通过布下的{color=#d0380a}阵法{/color}辅助，操控灵沙与灵尘进行进攻与防守。¤The fairy origin hawk who practices the Sand Condensation Skill is skilled in using arrays to assist in manipulating spiritual sand and dust for offense and defense.
此环，名为落尘，乃是化尘筑基期修士的绝佳武器，今日便送给你当见面礼了。¤This ring, named Falling Dust, is an excellent weapon for cultivators in the Foundation Establishment stage. Today, I am gifting it to you as a present for our meeting.
你走到冶庚上人身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Venerable Yegeng and perform the rites of passage for accepting him as your master.
恒如真人修炼的是我派秘术《混元引气诀》，战斗时能自如操控一方天地间的{color=#d0380a}引力{/color}，干扰对手以占得上风。¤The Paragon Eternal Harmony cultivates our sect's secret arts, the Mixing and Guiding Skill. In combat, they can freely manipulate the gravity within one side of heaven and earth, disrupting their opponents to gain an advantage.
哈哈哈，你这{xiaozi}还是有眼光。¤Hahaha, you, {xiaozi}, have good taste.
此等资质本座也十分心动，不过还是要看他个人的选择，师弟师妹莫争了罢。¤This aptitude is very tempting to me, but it still depends on his personal choice. Junior sister and junior brother, don't argue over it.
你在{color=#d0380a}结丹之前{/color}，就跟着为师学，为师自然不会亏待你。¤Before you core up , if you follow me and learn, I will naturally not treat you unfairly.
掌门目前正在闭关，你入内门的事宜便由我代为主持。¤The master is currently in seclusion, I will take charge of your admission to the inner sect.
当然，参加猎魔试炼也有不小的危险，虽然门派会有相应的奖励补偿，但是否参与还是全凭自愿。距离下一次的猎魔试炼还有一段时间，你可以去找参加过往届试炼的同门了解情况以后，再作决定。¤Of course, participating in the demon hunt trial is not without danger. Although the sect will provide corresponding rewards and compensation, whether to participate is still entirely voluntary. There is still some time until the next demon hunt trial, so you can go find fellow sect members who have participated in past trials to learn more about the situation before making a decision.
{shidi}，我派目前有三位授业长老招收弟子，你想先了解哪一位？¤{shidi} is a term used to address a junior fellow disciple in martial arts novels.
是，长老。¤Yes, elder.
你走到鸢本仙子身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Fairy Origin Hawk and perform the Rites of Passage by bowing to her as your teacher.
大长老，本届的宗门大比的结果出来了，这次夺魁的是{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}。¤Grand Elder, the result of the clan competition has been announced, and the champion of this year is {FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}.
呵呵呵，希望你能尊师重道，不要忘恩负义。¤Hehehe, I hope you can respect your teachers and follow the right path, and not forget your gratitude and betray kindness.
也罢，也罢。仙儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤Fine, fine. Xian'er, please introduce the situation of all the elders to your {shidi}. 
回冶庚长老，师尊目前还未传出消息，怕是仍在悟道中。¤Senior Elder Hui Yigeng, our master has not yet passed on any news and is probably still in the state of enlightenment.
呵呵，你倒是刁滑。小友如此资质，若是从师本座定为亲传弟子，倾囊相授。不知小友你可愿意入我门下？¤Hehe, you are quite cunning. With such aptitude, if you become my personally instructed disciple, I will impart all my knowledge to you. I wonder if young friend is willing to join my sect?
的确是纯净的天灵根，没有一丝一毫的杂灵根，这点我看的清清楚楚。¤It is indeed a pure heavenly spirit root, without a trace of impure spiritual roots. I can see this clearly.
门内得一天灵根资质的弟子应禀告掌门师兄才是，仙儿，他可曾有什么出关的消息？¤A disciple with a heavenly spirit root aptitude within the sect should report to the master senior brother. Xian'er, is there any news of his return from seclusion?
距离下一次的猎魔试炼还有一段时间，你可以去找参加过往届试炼的同门了解情况以后，再作决定。¤There is still some time until the next demon-hunting trial, you can go find fellow disciples who have participated in past trials to understand the situation before making a decision.
仙儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤Immortal, please introduce the situation of all the elders to your {shidi}.
见过长老。¤Have seen the elder.
长老，{FirstName}{shidi}近日已突破至筑基期，特来禀明此事。¤Elder, {FirstName}{shidi} has recently made a breakthrough to the foundation establishment level and has come to report this matter.
冶庚上人是我派大长老，掌门师尊闭关时的门派事务皆由冶庚长老代为处理。他修炼的《五藏炼尘功》能运用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力，最大限度地发挥我派神通威能。¤Venerable Yegeng is the grand elder of our sect, and is responsible for handling all sect affairs while the sect master is in seclusion. He cultivates the Wuzang Dust Refining Technique, which can utilize the phasing power of the five elements to maximize the divine skill of our sect.
禀大长老，今年的招收的外门弟子中，收取到了一名资质鉴定为天灵根的弟子，名叫{FirstName}{LastName}！¤Dear Grand Elder, among this year's newly recruited Outer Disciples, a disciple named {FirstName}{LastName} was selected with Heavenly Spirit Root as their aptitude.
弟子谨记长老教诲。¤Disciple remembers elder's teachings.
你走到恒如真人身前，行拜师之礼。¤You walk up to Paragon Eternal Harmony's front and perform the Rites of Passage as a disciple.
清透的晶体逐渐变得耀眼起来，双色的光芒在其中交缠流动。¤The clear crystal gradually became dazzling, with two colors of light intertwining and flowing within it.
恭喜{shidi}，从今日起你就是我们化尘教的外门弟子了。¤Congratulations {shidi}, from today onwards you are an outer disciple of our Shifting Sand Sect.
澹台仙从储物囊中拿出一只水晶般通体剔透的细笺递给你，示意你拿住它的另一端。¤Tantai Xian took out a finely transparent note that was crystal-like from his storage bag and handed it to you, gesturing for you to hold onto the other end.
{shidi}，请向其中缓慢地注入灵气。¤{shidi}, please slowly infuse spiritual energy into it.
在流沙的遮掩下，你跟随化尘教接引弟子踏入无尽的沙河。一段短暂的空间波动后你们出现在地底的化尘教广场中，倾斜而下的黄沙在中央的巨型阵法内汇聚流转，形成巨大的沙砾旋涡。¤Under the cover of the flowing sand, you follow the disciples of Shifting Sand Sect and enter the endless sand river. After a brief spatial fluctuation, you appear in the Shifting Sand Sect square underground, where the sloping yellow sand converges and circulates in a giant array in the center, forming a huge vortex of sand and gravel.
你既已入我化尘教，务必努力修行，争取早日达到{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}修为，成为我派的内门弟子。¤Since you have already joined our Shifting Sand Sect, you must work hard to cultivate and strive to reach the Foundation Establishment stage as soon as possible, becoming an inner disciple of our sect.
好不容易有位{shidi}通过测试，我赶着带{ta}面见师姐故还未曾测过，望师姐谅解。¤With difficulty, a {shidi} has passed the test. I am rushing to bring them to meet our senior sister, so I haven't tested them yet. I hope senior sister can understand.
无妨，你且回石窟继续测试其他修士，这位{shidi}交给我就可以了。¤No problem, you can go back to the stone cave and continue testing other cultivators. This {shidi} will be taken care of by me.
清透的晶体逐渐变得光芒四射，纯净的灵气光芒吸引来不少修士的注意。¤The clear crystal gradually became radiant, attracting the attention of many cultivators with its pure spiritual aura.
清透的晶体逐渐变得浑浊起来，五色的光芒在其中杂乱地流窜着。¤The clear crystal gradually became turbid, and a chaotic mix of five-colored light swirled within it.
入门测试就在那边的石室进行，左数第三间还没有修士占用。道友切记，量力而行。¤The entrance test is conducted in the stone chamber over there, and the third one from the left is still unoccupied by cultivators. Fellow daoist, remember to act within your capabilities.
你随着他的指引走向门口，穿过铺满沙砾的长廊后到达一间昏暗的石室。¤You follow his guidance and walk towards the door, passing through a long corridor covered in gravel before reaching a dimly lit stone chamber.
大师姐，这位{shidi}已经通过入门测试。¤Master Senior Sister, this {shidi} has already passed the entrance exam.
宗门广场较往日热闹许多，大师姐像是在分发某样物品。她面前身着化尘教道袍的修士排成长龙，放眼望去就连几位平日醉心修练的师兄弟也站在其中。¤The sect plaza is much more lively than usual, and senior sister is distributing some items. In front of her, cultivators dressed in the robes of the Shifting Sand Sect stand in a long line, and even some senior brothers who are usually devoted to cultivation are among them.
五灵根么，罢了。资质虽差但本事尚可，做个外门弟子倒也无妨。¤Five Spiritual Roots, forget about it. Although the aptitude is poor, the skills are still decent, it's not a problem to become an Outer Disciple.
清透的晶体逐渐变得明亮起来，三色的光芒在其中流窜。¤The clear crystal gradually became brighter, and three-colored rays of light flickered within it.
你先去门派{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}领取入门功法，{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}领取符器，然后再回来找我吧。¤First, go to the {color=#d0380a}Hidden Manual Pavilion{/color} of the sect to receive the introductory technique, go to the {color=#d0380a}Divine Warrior Pavilion{/color} to receive the runic weapon, and then come back to me.
{shidi}，你随我来。¤{shidi}, come with me.
高大朴拙的土色建筑上镶嵌着澄金的琉璃窗牖，给肃穆的景象增添上几分灵动的色彩。你被淳厚的土系灵气所包围，初到宗门的忐忑散去了一些。¤The tall and simple earth-colored buildings are adorned with clear golden glazed windows, adding a touch of liveliness to the solemn scenery. You are surrounded by the pure earth spiritual energy, easing some of the nervousness of arriving at the clan.
澹台仙像是怕你溜走般紧紧地抓住了你的手腕，随即转身叮嘱身后的外门执事道：¤Tantai Xian tightly grabbed your wrist as if afraid you would escape, then turned around to instruct the outer sect deacon behind them.
你听从大师姐的话将灵气注入水晶笺，很快水晶笺便产生了变化。¤You listened to Senior Sister's words and infused spiritual energy into the crystal paper, and soon the crystal paper underwent a change.
你对土之道的感悟略微提升了。¤Your enlightenment of the Earth Dao has slightly increased.
三灵根，不错，若是勤加修炼便能进入内门，{shidi}你要多加努力。¤Triple spirit root, not bad, if diligently cultivated, one can enter the inner sect. {shidi}, you need to work harder.
若再有人通过测试麻烦师弟你代为接引，我要先带这位{shidi}面见长老。¤If someone else passes the test, please guide them personally, {shidi}. If not, I will bring this {shidi} to see the elder.
清透的晶体逐渐变得斑驳起来，四色的光芒在其中杂乱地流窜着。¤The clear crystal gradually became mottled, with four-colored rays of light flickering chaotically within.
竟是双灵根...看来不久后内门弟子又会增加一位了。¤Unexpectedly, it's a double spirit root... it seems that soon there will be another inner disciple added.
哦？既能通过测试，可见是个有几分本事的。不知灵根资质如何？¤Oh? If you were able to pass the test, it's apparent you have some ability. I wonder what your spiritual root aptitude is?
四灵根么，比凡人倒是胜上一筹，做个外门弟子也可。¤As for the Four Spirit Roots, they are superior to ordinary people and being an outer disciple is also possible.
天灵根...！竟是天灵根！¤Heavenly spirit root...! It's actually a heavenly spirit root!
你先去门派{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}领取入门功法，{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}领取法器，然后再回来找我吧。¤You first need to go to the sect's {color=#d0380a}hidden manual pavilion{/color} to acquire basic techniques, go to the {color=#d0380a}divine warrior pavilion{/color} to acquire magic tools, and then come back to find me again.
碧玉符剑-主动：敌方获得【中毒】*1¤Enemy gains Poisoned *1. Note
桃木符剑-主动：造成1点剑系伤害¤Peachwood Talisman SwordActive
师兄你好，我是新入门的外门弟子，来领取符器。这是信物。¤Senior brother, hello. I am a newly enrolled outer disciple here to receive my runic weapon. This is my token.
嗯，没错，选一个吧，¤Hmm, that's right. Choose one.
陨铁符剑-主动：两回合后，造成6点剑系伤害¤After two rounds, deals 6 sword damage.
收好吧，¤Take it and put it away.
说来惭愧，之前战斗我硬吃了几招，如今得先{color=#d0380a}疗伤{/color}才行。我要去{color=#d0380a}客栈{/color}静养些时日。¤Ashamed to say, I took a few hits in the previous battle, so now I need to {color=#d0380a}heal{/color} before moving on. I'll be staying at the {color=#d0380a}inn{/color} for a while to rest.
多谢！倪道友不一同前去看看么？¤Thank you! Daoist Ni, would you like to come with me to take a look? 
没想到这东石谷中竟如此繁华，我还是第一次在同一个地方见到这么多的修真之人。¤I never expected East Stone Valley to be so prosperous. It's my first time seeing so many cultivators in one place.
倪旭欣说罢大大方方地向你施了一礼，随后大步流星地向客栈走去。你望着东石谷内的热闹繁华，一时间不禁眼花缭乱。¤After Ni Xuxin finished speaking, he gave you a formal bow and strode confidently towards the inn, leaving you dazzled by the lively and prosperous East Stone Valley.
大可放心！这盛会能延续几百年，背后底蕴非同小可，今年更是轮到{color=#d0380a}宁州四族{/color}主持。哼，就算那帮沂山派杂碎，也不敢在此造次。¤Rest assured! This grand event can last for hundreds of years, with extraordinary background. This year, it is the turn of the {color=#d0380a}Ningzhou Four Clans{/color} to host it. Even those Yishan Sect scoundrels dare not cause trouble here.
你与倪道友一路谈笑而来，两个初出茅庐的青年的脚步越聊越轻快，越聊越兴奋，不知不觉便已抵达东石谷前。\n¤You and Daoist Ni arrived at East Stone Valley with light and excited steps, chatting and laughing all the way like two inexperienced young fellows.\n
嘿嘿，小家伙，看花眼了吧，修仙界可有趣得很，这才多大点地方，走吧，先去{color=#d0380a}坊市{/color}看看，这集会一年一度，过了这村可就没这店了。¤Hey there, little one. Are you dazzled? The world of cultivation is full of excitement. This place is small, let's go to the {color=#d0380a}market{/color} first. The annual gathering is happening, and once we miss it, there won't be another chance.
不如我们下个月在{color=#d0380a}伴月楼{/color}碰头。一起去那里的竞拍会上开开眼。¤How about we meet at the {color=#d0380a}Moon House{/color} next month and check out the auction there? 
这么多好东西就这么摆在街上叫卖，难道不怕危险？¤So many good things are being sold on the street like this, aren't they afraid of danger?
哈哈哈，这东石谷盛会{color=#d0380a}一年一次{/color}，能聚拢许多修仙者各取所需，互通有无，机会可难得的很。¤Hahaha, this East Stone Valley event {color=#d0380a}only happens once a year{/color}, attracting many cultivators to gather and exchange resources and opportunities.
这些灵石{xiongdi}你先收下，看着什么喜欢的就买，可别和我客气！¤Take these spirit stones, {xiongdi}. Keep them and buy whatever you like. Don't hesitate to treat yourself!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}你修行尚浅，不妨去{color=#d0380a}坊市{/color}内多看看，或许能碰到合适的兵器功法，将来行走江湖也多份保障。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, your cultivation is still shallow, why not take a look around the {color=#d0380a}marketplace{/color} for suitable weapons and techniques? This may provide more assurance for your future walks in the Jianghu.
倪兄弟还在{color=#d0380a}客栈{/color}等我呢，还是别到处乱晃了...¤Brother Ni is still waiting for me at the inn {color=#d0380a} {/color}, so I better not wander around aimlessly...
听说二月份会在{color=#d0380a}伴月楼{/color}举办拍卖会，有约在身，外出乱逛怕是会误了时间。¤I heard that there will be an auction in February at the Moon House. I have an appointment, so I'm afraid wandering around outside will waste my time.
伴月楼的拍卖会要等到二月份才开始，我还是过段时间再来吧...¤The auction at Moon House will not start until February, I will come back later.
哼，说者无意，听者有心罢了。¤Hmph, the speaker has no intention, but the listener has a purpose.
若真有姑娘所言这么神奇，不知阁内可还有空位？¤If what the girl said is truly so amazing, I wonder if there is still a vacancy in your place?
正有此意！¤There is definitely such an purpose!
盈手露？¤hand overflow dew.
亏诸位修炼多年，这么浅显的道理居然都不懂？¤Are you all cultivators for so many years? How come you don't even understand such a simple truth?
原来如此，可惜在下无意此酒，多谢姑娘介绍。¤I see, unfortunately I didn't intend to drink this, thank you for the introduction, miss.
你打开纸笺，上面写着几个大字“结束后请至公孙府——公孙季”。¤After it's over, please go to the GongSun House GongSun Ji.
在别有用心的挑拨下，盈手露的加价幅度明显增大，很快便成交。¤Under the instigation of someone with ulterior motives, the increase in the price of Ying Hand Dew noticeably increased and soon was sold.
美酒有价，时间无价，诸位几百几百灵石地加不觉得太寒碜了吗？¤Fine wine has value, time is priceless, do you not feel that adding a few hundred spirit stones is too shabby?
见你此举，他颇有兴趣地看了过来，并提笔写下什么派人送至你桌上。¤Upon seeing your action, he looked over with great interest and took out his pen to write something that would be sent to your table.
{FirstName}道友，公孙道友已经恭候您多时了，请随我来。¤Dear {FirstName}, Fellow Daoist GongSun has been waiting for you for a long time. Please follow me.
为了节省时间，我加价一千灵石。¤In order to save time, I added one thousand spirit stones.
你打开纸笺，上面写着几个大字“勿拍，结束后公孙府见”。¤Do not take pictures. See you at the Gongsun House after it's over. 
你本以为这里会充斥着市井般的哄闹声，但与猜测不同，丝竹管弦奏响的雅致曲调伴着素馨的熏香弥散开。透过青萝垂成的蔓帘你隐约看到几桌吃茶的客人，比起风月场所此处更像是别致的茶楼。¤You might have expected this place to be filled with noisy crowds, but contrary to your speculation, the elegant melody of silk and bamboo instruments is accompanied by the scent of the white jasmine. Through the green trailing vines of the curtain, you can vaguely see several tables of tea-drinking guests. Compared to the traditional entertainment venues, this place is more like a unique tea house.
你找了个稍为隐蔽的地方落座，很快就有人端来茶水和点心，以及一筒刻着数字的木牌用于稍后的拍卖。你无所事事地翻看着牌筒，突然察觉到一股奇特的灵力波动。然而等你想要仔细探究时，那波动却消失了。¤You found a slightly hidden place to sit, and soon someone brought tea and snacks, as well as a wooden plaque with numbers on it for the upcoming auction. You idly flipped through the plaque and suddenly noticed a strange spiritual power fluctuation. However, when you wanted to investigate it carefully, the fluctuation disappeared.
你思索再三，愈发觉得此人无理取闹。准备起身离开。¤After much contemplation, you increasingly feel that this person is being unreasonable. You prepare to stand up and leave.
你打开纸笺，上面写着几个大字“勿拍，结束后请至公孙府——公孙季”。¤Do not take photos, after finishing please go to the Gongsun House Gongsun Ji.
见你加价，他颇有兴趣地看了过来。显然公孙季也认出了你，于是提笔写下什么派人送至你桌上。¤Seeing you increase the price, he looked over with great interest. Obviously, Gongsun Ji also recognized you, and then wrote something with a pen and had someone send it to your table.
一壶茶喝得差不多时，阁内乐声渐弱消失，看样子重头戏即将开场。¤When the tea in the pot was almost finished, the sound of music in the pavilion gradually weakened and disappeared, indicating that the main event was about to begin.
此时一个小厮在你离开之时，递上一个纸笺。¤At this moment, a maid servant handed you a piece of paper as you were leaving.
细看之下，你越发觉得这人眼熟。你低头回想，终于记起他是与你在英杰会上交手的公孙家少主——公孙季。¤Upon close inspection, you increasingly feel that you recognize this person. You lower your head and remember, finally recalling that he is Gongsun Ji, the young master of the Gongsun family who fought against you in the young hero's tournament.
女子掩唇一笑，淡淡的心字香味道随着衣袂摆动传来，你不由得心神荡漾。¤The woman covered her mouth with a smile, and a faint scent of heart-shaped fragrance wafted through the air as her clothing swayed, causing your mind to be enraptured.
他大概出于什么目的在哄抬价格，想着干脆做个顺水人情，你举起了加价一千灵石的木牌。¤He was probably inflating the price for some purpose, thinking of just going along with the situation. You raised the wooden plaque with an additional price of 1,000 spirit stones.
闻言，那位修士略有不悦地眯起了眼睛。¤Upon hearing this, the cultivator slightly narrowed their eyes in displeasure.
仙长真是来得好不如来得巧，盈手露乃听雨阁的秘酿，一月只供一坛。此酒以天材地宝泡制，饮者可引动自身与天地灵气的共鸣。凡人一盏延寿数十年，修士一坛修为精进数十载，因珍稀故以拍卖的形式售出。¤The Immortal Master's arrival is truly fortuitous, as the Ying Hand Dew is a secret brew of the Rain Pavilion, only one barrel is produced per month. This wine is made from heavenly treasures and earthly treasures, and those who drink it can resonate with the spiritual energy of heaven and earth. One cup can prolong a mortal's life by decades, while one barrel can advance a cultivator's cultivation by decades. Due to its rarity, it is sold through auctions.
一片嘈杂声中传出不耐烦的声音，你循声望去，只见一位衣着不凡的修士拍案而起。¤Amidst the clamorous noise, an impatient voice was heard, and you followed the sound to see a cultivator dressed in extraordinary clothes slam his hand on the table. 
拍品起价5000灵石，每次加价不得低于100灵石。¤The starting bid for the item is 5000 spirit stones, and each subsequent bid must not be lower than 100 spirit stones.
仙长也是为了今夜的盈手露而来吧？¤The Immortal Elder also came for tonight's Ying Hand Dew, right?
阁下成心与我作对？¤Are you deliberately opposing me, senior?
欢迎各位光临我阁，我是听雨阁掌柜夏云蔚，此次盈手露的拍卖将由我来主持。¤Welcome everyone to my pavilion, I am the manager of the Rain Pavilion, Xia Yunwei. This auction of Ying Hand Dew will be hosted by me.
只见一位穿戴着华丽衣饰的女子莲步轻移，走上阁内表演用的舞台。她轻轻招了招手，台下小厮便将酒坛抱至台中的桌上。¤Only to see a woman dressed in gorgeous attire gracefully make her way onto the stage in the pavilion. With a gentle wave of her hand, a maid servant below brought a jug of wine to the table in the center of the stage.
只是价格让你觉得即便是九天仙子亲自斟酒也有所不值，或许这就是有钱人的消遣。¤Only the price makes you feel that even if the Heavenly Fairy of the Nine Heavens personally pours the wine, it is still not worth it. Perhaps this is the amusement of the wealthy.
我看阁下倒不像无意之言，手下见真章如何？¤I don't think your words were idle talk. How about seeing the real evidence?
话音刚落，台下加价的木牌已经争先恐后地举了起来。你决定¤As the voice fell, the wooden placards being bid on in the audience had already eagerly shot up. You decide.
你不甘示弱地举起木牌，几轮加价过后，一个不耐烦的声音从远处传来，你循声望去，只见一位衣着不凡的修士拍案而起。¤You unwillingly raised the wooden sign, after several rounds of bidding, an impatient voice came from afar, and you followed the sound, only to see a cultivator dressed unusually slamming the table.
想起之前收到的纸签，你决定前往公孙府一探究竟。¤Recalling the paper talisman received before, you decide to go to Gongsun House to find out what's going on.
刚走近此地不久，你便感受到周天的灵气渐渐浓郁了起来，看来这附近必有一处灵脉。¤Just after arriving here, you can feel the spiritual energy in the surrounding area becoming more concentrated. It seems that there must be a spiritual vein nearby.
尽管这洞府的外壁和很粗糙，更谈不上有什么装饰，但好歹已经可以在此闭关修炼了，没准以后会越来越好的。¤Although the exterior of this cave is very rough and lacks decoration, it can be used for cultivation in seclusion, and it may improve in the future.
拿出阵旗和几块灵石，你在坐台的四周又布下了一个小型的聚灵阵。虽说灵眼的聚灵效果不俗，但也算是聊胜于无。¤Take out the formation flag and some spirit stones, and you set up a small gathering spirit array around the platform. Although the effect of the Ling Eye gathering spirit is not bad, it is still better than nothing.
你御起法宝，三下五除二便开辟了一个基础的洞府雏形出来，又细致地在灵眼的附近为自己雕刻了一个修炼用的坐台。¤You wielded your artifact and with a few flicks created the initial formation of a cave. Then, meticulously carved a cultivating platform near your spiritual eyes.
还是再去其它地方看看吧。¤Let's go look at other places again.
要在此处开辟洞府么？¤Do you want to open a cave residence here?
你这{xiaozi}运气着实不错，连这种难得一遇的灵眼都被你给撞上了。¤Your luck is really good, {xiaozi}, you even stumbled upon this rare spirit eye.
你刚一走近此地，一股浓郁的灵气就扑面而来...¤As you approach this place, a strong spiritual energy rushes towards your face...
灵眼？¤Spiritual Eye?
这附近其它地方的灵气如此稀薄，想必是因为都被这个灵眼汇聚到了此地。¤The spiritual energy in other nearby places is so thin, presumably because it has all been gathered here by this spiritual eye.
你别小看这个灵眼，它汇聚灵气的能力可比你布上十个普通的聚灵阵都要有用的多。¤Don't underestimate this spirit eye, its ability to gather spiritual qi is much more useful than laying down ten normal gathering spirit arrays.
若是在这里开辟洞府，可比选那些普通的灵脉要强得多，未来闭关修炼定能事半功倍。¤If you open a cave here, it will be much stronger than choosing a normal spiritual vein. In the future, cultivating while closing oneself off will surely yield twice the result with half the effort.
此地已是方圆几里内灵气最为浓郁之处，尽管用肉眼无法看见，但你依稀感觉到附近已有几处处于阵法保护之下的洞府。¤This place is already the most prosperous area within a few miles of radius with spiritual energy. Although it cannot be seen with the naked eye, you vaguely feel that there are already several cave mansions under the protection of arrays nearby.
看来这里便是这处灵脉较为核心的区域了，若是在此处开辟洞府，也许是个不错的选址。¤It seems that this is the core area of the spiritual vein here. If one were to open a cave here, it might be a good location.
拿出阵旗和几块灵石，你在坐台的四周又布下了一个小型的聚灵阵，你能感受到周天的灵气很快便向这个方向涌了过来。¤Take out the formation flag and a few spirit stones, and you set up a small gathering spirit array around the platform. You can feel the spiritual energy in the surrounding area quickly flowing towards this direction.
此地已经接近{$shan}的外围，位置隐蔽不易被发现，原本倒是一处不错的选址。¤This place is already close to the perimeter of the mountains, hidden in a location that is not easily discovered, and was originally a decent choice of location.
可惜附近的灵气过于稀薄，若在此处开辟洞府，即使布下聚灵阵，修炼速度也远远比不上在门派中快，实在得不偿失。¤Unfortunately, the spiritual energy nearby is too thin. Even if condensing the gathering spirit array and opening a cave here, the cultivation speed would still be much slower than in the sect. It's really not worth it.
随着你不断往这个方向深入，周天的灵气竟愈发稀薄起来。或许此地并不是一个开辟洞府的理想场所？¤As you continue to venture in this direction, the spiritual energy in the surrounding area becomes increasingly thin. Perhaps this isn't an ideal location for opening a cave?
还是不要再来这里了...¤Or maybe it's better not to come here again...
你饶有兴致地观察了一阵，很快便找到了离开大阵的方式。¤You observed with great interest for a while, quickly finding a way to leave the large formation.
看来这应该是某位同门师兄在自己洞府外设下的阵法，只有困人之效，却不伤人。¤It seems this should be an array set up by a fellow senior brother outside their cave, with only the ability to trap people without causing harm.
这阵法布置的颇为高明，与周围环境融为一体，即便是你也未能及时发现。¤The formation is set up very cleverly, blending seamlessly into the surrounding environment, even you would not be able to discover it in time.
雾气渐渐浓郁了起来，对阵道略有研究的你立刻警觉起来，自己果然已经身陷幻雾迷阵之中。¤The mist gradually thickened, and you, who have some knowledge of array dao, immediately became alert. You have indeed fallen into the illusionary mist array.
索性那人没有恶意，否则自己恐怕已经陷入了极为危险的境地。¤That person had no ill intentions. Otherwise, I'm afraid that I would have already fallen into an extremely dangerous situation.
你不由地惊出一身冷汗，原来你已在不知不觉中陷入了别人布下的幻雾阵法之中。¤You couldn't help but shudder with cold sweat, turns out you have unknowingly fallen into someone else's Mirage Mist Array.
不知在此地走了多久，当你回过神来之时，才发现自己又回到了原地。¤After walking for who knows how long in this place, when you come to your senses, you realize that you have returned to where you started without knowing it.
雾气渐渐浓郁了起来，你莫名的感到一阵恍惚...¤The mist gradually became denser, and you inexplicably felt a trance...
你虽有金丹修为，但却对阵道一窍不通，因此毫无察觉。¤Although you have cultivated a golden core, you are completely ignorant about array dao, so you are completely unaware.
草丛之中，点点银光忽明忽暗，你走近一瞧，才发现是一颗颗晶莹的露珠凝结在草叶之上。¤Among the grass, there are flickering silver lights that appear and disappear. As you approach, you realize that they are actually crystal clear dewdrops crystallized on the blades of grass.
这是...¤This is...
这百草露只有在灵气浓郁的地方才会凝结而成，可此地灵气如此稀薄，倒是奇怪...¤This hundred herbs dew only condenses in places with abundant spiritual energy, it's strange that the spiritual energy here is so thin ...
尽管这洞府的外壁还很粗糙，更谈不上有什么装饰，但好歹已经可以在此闭关修炼了，没准以后会越来越好的。¤Although the exterior walls of this cave are still rough and there is no decoration to speak of, at least you can cultivate and go into seclusion here. Maybe it will get better in the future.
你打算先调查¤You plan to investigate first.
还有些地方没调查完，我再检查一下吧。¤There are still some places that haven't been investigated thoroughly, let me check again.
房间里十分整洁，书架上的花带来一种雅致的氛围。¤The room is very tidy, the flowers on the bookshelf bring a kind of elegant atmosphere.
桌案上十分整洁，你上下翻找一通，最后在桌角发现了一枚残破的玉简。¤The table was very tidy, you searched up and down and finally found a broken jade slip at the corner of the table.
枕头下，被褥里，床帐后你都翻了个遍，却什么也没发现。正当你失望地打算调查下个地方时，脚底踩到了什么硬邦邦的东西——一小块玉简碎片。¤You have searched under pillows, inside bedding, and behind curtains but have found nothing. Just as you were about to investigate somewhere else with disappointment, you stepped on something hard and found a small fragment of a jade tablet.
花瓶里的海棠已经变成了干花。¤The peonies in the vase have already turned into dried flowers.
调查得差不多了，还是赶快离开以免被发现......¤The investigation is almost done, so let's leave quickly to avoid being discovered...
正合我意，倪兄请。¤That suits me well, Brother Ni, please.
要是你准备好了，就来{color=#d0380a}客栈{/color}碰头，咱们一起出发。¤If you're ready, come to the inn to meet up and we'll depart together.
倪兄何故唉声叹气？¤Why are you sighing, Brother Ni?
小菜一碟！只要到了{color=#d0380a}武陵城{/color}下，我自有办法。这可是我第五次离家出走了，经验丰富！¤Small task! As long as we arrive at Wuling City, {color=#d0380a}I have my own ways{/color}. This is already my fifth time running away from home, so I'm experienced!
伴月楼拍卖会就要开始了，一起去看看如何？¤The moon house auction is about to begin,'s go and see how it goes!
前往赴约，随着人群向着伴月楼走去，刚进大厅，只见楼内装饰古朴典雅，还未来得及定睛细看，身后便传来一阵爽朗的招呼声。¤Going to the appointment, following the crowd towards Moon House, just entered the grand hall, seeing the ancient and elegant decoration inside the building, before having a chance to look closely, a crisp greeting came from behind.
哎...终于结束了。¤Ah... finally over.
才没多久不见，你的气息就沉稳不少，看来{xiongdi}比我修炼用心多了。¤Not long since we last saw each other, your aura has already significantly calmed down. It seems that my {xiongdi} has put more effort into cultivation than I have.
还不是因为……唉，迟早你也会知道的。¤It's just because... sigh, you'll know eventually.
哈哈，原来兄弟真是倪家少爷，失敬失敬。不过要离开这一带，必然经过武陵城，岂不是自投罗网？¤Haha, so you are really the young master of the Ni family, my apologies. But if we want to leave this area, we must pass through Wuling City. Wouldn't that be walking into a trap?
这次主办方就是我们倪家，没想到前来主持的还是个熟人。我这才刚逃出来没半年，一招摇准被抓回武陵城。我可还还盼着跟你去闯荡一番呢。¤The organizer for this event is our Ni family. I didn't expect the host to be someone I know. I just escaped not even half a year ago and was caught and brought back to Wuling City with one move. I was hoping to go on an adventure with you.
书架上并没有什么值得注意的线索，但其中一本书很多字被抠掉了。¤There were no noteworthy clues on the bookshelf, but many words were cut out of one of the books.
你推开窗，一个信封飘了进来。修士大多使用玉简传书，书信是谁送来的呢？¤You push open the window, and a letter floats in. Most cultivators use jade slips to send messages, so who sent this letter?
大堂里空荡荡的，长老们今日应该没有事情需要商议。¤The hall is empty. The elders should have nothing to discuss today.
纸篓里除了废纸什么也没有。¤There's only waste paper in the trash can.
床铺十分整洁，你不禁怀疑这间屋子真的有人居住吗？¤The bedding is very tidy, making you doubt if anyone really lives in this room?
柜子里只有一些洗干净的衣物。你不死心地又翻了一遍，最后在月白色长衫中找到了一张叠好的纸片。¤There were only some clean clothes inside the cabinet. You searched through it again without giving up, and finally found a neatly folded piece of paper in a moon-white robe.
窗明几净的房间，不知为何看起来毫无生气。¤The clean and bright room appears lifeless for some unknown reason.
倪旭荣的书架上净是些看不懂的书，你将它们放回原位。¤On Ni Xurong's bookshelf are mostly books that I can't understand, so I put them back in their original place.
走进屋内，只觉整洁。¤Walking inside, I felt the cleanliness.
（林府修士都擅长神识，这长老境界又比我高，仅靠神识没有发现也是正常，不如再敲打敲打试试。）¤(Lin family cultivators are skilled in soul sense, and this elder's realm is higher than mine. It's normal not to discover anything just by relying on soul sense alone. It's better to try knocking again.)
（难道是我猜错了？趁着还有时间，赶紧去三长老的居所调查吧，希望能有所发现。）¤(Could it be that I guessed wrong? While there is still time, quickly go investigate at the residence of the three elders, hoping to find something.)
窗明几净，罕有尘杂。¤The windows are bright and clean, rarely dusty.
虽说是对鉴定没有深入研究过，但即便只是粗浅的感受一番台座上所镌刻聚灵阵的复杂程度和强大效用，也不难猜出此等台座乃非凡之物。造价甚至可能要高于寻常宗门金丹长老的本命法宝。¤Although I haven't delved deeply into identification, even just a superficial perception of the complexity and powerful utility engraved on the gathering spirit array on the pedestal makes it easy to guess that this pedestal is not an ordinary item. Its cost may even be higher than the life treasure of the golden core elder of an ordinary clan.
你简单的翻看了这本书，没发现什么特别的。¤You casually flipped through this book and didn't find anything particularly noteworthy.
这台座初见时没什么特殊的，你走进了仔细查看才发现竟是由念铜所铸。¤When you first lay eyes on this pedestal, there's nothing particularly special about it. It's only upon closer inspection that you realize it's actually cast from chanting copper.
（哼哼，得来全不费工夫。我也该去见大长老了。）¤(Hmph. Obtained it without any effort. It's time for me to go meet the grand elder.)
一张被涂抹得乌漆墨黑的纸吸引了你的注意，从没被涂掉的画面看来这似乎是一张地图。¤You were attracted by a piece of paper that was painted pitch black, from the unpainted parts it seems to be a map.
（等等！这一笔的备注是冲虚！呵呵，这老鬼也真是舍得，看来真是寿元无多，找不到其他方法突破了，只得大出血。）¤(Wait a minute! The note on this stroke is 'Chongxu'! Hehe, this old ghost is quite generous. It seems his lifespan is running out, and he can't find any other way to make a breakthrough, so he has to bleed heavily.)
此时阵法正在散发着几不可见的微弱光芒。虽不知道是做什么用的，但对你一个闯入者来说，肯定不是什么好事。¤At this moment, the array is emitting several invisible and faint rays of light. Although I don't know what it is used for, as a trespasser, it is definitely not a good thing for you.
你谨慎地检查了衣柜，没有有用的发现。¤You carefully checked the wardrobe, but didn't find anything useful.
近旁摆放着一盆修剪过的玉桂盆栽。¤There is a trimmed jade cinnamon bonsai placed nearby.
一开门，各种物事涌入你的眼帘。字画、盆栽、玉石摆件、香炉、书籍……还有些一眼看不出功用的小玩意见缝插针般的塞满了剩下的角落。¤Upon opening the door, various objects and items flood into your view. Calligraphy and paintings, potted plants, jade and stone ornaments, incense burners, books... and various small trinkets that are hard to discern their function congest the remaining corners like they were squeezed in through the cracks.
看起来像是装饰，但当你靠近时锋锐的剑气扑面而来，似乎这把剑鞘曾装过品质不凡的剑。¤It looks like a decoration, but when you get closer, a sharp sword qi comes rushing towards you, as if this scabbard once held a remarkable sword.
这是一个修炼用的灵石台座，上刻聚灵阵，应该是苗矮上人平日修炼静修之处。¤This is a spirit stone pedestal used for cultivation, inscribed with a Gathering Spirit Array. It should be the place where Venerable Miaoai cultivates and meditates in his daily life.
但你用神识仔细地检查了台座，却没有任何发现，连一丝不和谐之处都没能发觉。¤However, you carefully inspected the pedestal with your soul sense, but found nothing, not even a hint of disharmony.
你进入苗矮上人的居所。¤You enter the residence of Venerable Miaoai.
你随意的翻看着桌上散乱的杂物，却没有有用的发现。¤You casually browse through the mess of scattered items on the desk, but do not find anything useful.
即使处于闭关中，倪府的下人仍仔细地打扫了倪振东的房间。¤Even while in closed-door cultivation, the servants of Ni's Manor still carefully cleaned Ni Zhendong's room.
墙上的各色字画，皆无署名，也不知从何而来。其中一副似有剑意透纸而出吸引了你的目光，但上前查看时又未发现丝毫特殊之处。¤The various calligraphies and paintings on the wall have no signature, and it is unknown where they came from. Among them, one painting seems to express a kind of sword intent that attracts your attention. However, upon closer inspection, you find nothing special about it.
桌上仅有一个砚台，一个笔架，若干支毛笔，和一本名唤《苗矮杂记》的书籍而已。¤On the desk, there was only one inkstone, one pen holder, several brushes, and a book called 《Records of the Short Statured Miao》 books.
桌上竟是用些略含灵气的杂物摆了一个微型阵法，由于之前被其他物事盖住，竟是瞒过了你的检查。¤On the table was a mini array formed by some slightly spiritual objects, which had gone unnoticed in your inspection due to being covered by other items.
（这...竟是三长老的私账！他暗中吞没了如此多的财物，上交天星城的整体营收竟还在连年上涨...）¤(This...is actually the private account of San Chang Elder! He secretly swallowed so much treasure, yet the overall revenue submitted to Starsky City has been continuously increasing for years...)
你用神识扫过台座和盆栽，没有可疑的地方。¤You scan the pedestal and potted plants with your soul sense, but there are no suspicious areas.
你不死心地用各种方法尝试了许久，终于是在台座上发现了一个小暗格。一枚不知记载了什么的玉简正静静的躺在暗格中。¤You persisted in trying various methods without giving up for a long time, finally discovering a small hidden compartment on the pedestal. A jade slip, which was silent and recorded something unknown, lay quietly in the hidden compartment.
你进入了栖云真人的居所。¤You have entered the abode of Immortal Taoist Quyun.
一扇华美的鎏金屏风，上面绘制着美轮美奂的建筑群。¤A beautiful gilded folding screen, with a splendid depiction of a group of buildings. 
书柜里胡乱的塞了一些书籍和杂物。你稍稍翻阅了一番，发现其中大都是与修炼无关的书籍，一时半会看不出个所以然来。¤The bookcase was filled haphazardly with some books and miscellaneous items. You flipped through them briefly, realizing that most of them were books unrelated to cultivation, and you couldn't make sense of them for a while. 
衣柜里满是叠好的粗布衣服，乍一看还以为房间主人不过是一位凡俗农夫。¤The wardrobe is full of neatly folded coarse cloth clothes. At first glance, one would think that the owner of the room is just an ordinary farmer.
规模不大的饭馆，隐隐有饭菜香气从里面传出。¤A small restaurant emits a faint aroma of food.
凡人抓药治病的地方，此处草药大多没什么灵气，对你而言和野草没什么区别。¤In the place where mortals gather herbs to treat illnesses, most of the herbs here lack spiritual energy and are no different to you than wild grass.
平凡的菜地，地里的土豆长得很好。¤The ordinary vegetable field, the potatoes in the ground grow very well.
平凡的菜地，地里的竹笋长得很好。¤The ordinary vegetable garden has bamboo shoots growing very well in the ground.
普通的青石井，有居民正提着水桶打水。¤A normal stone well, with residents carrying buckets and drawing water.
平凡的菜地，地里的白菜长得很好。¤The ordinary vegetable patch, the cabbage in the ground is growing well.
平凡的菜地，地里的丝瓜长得很好。¤Average vegetable garden, the loofah in the ground grows very well.
平凡的菜地，地里的萝卜长得很好。¤A ordinary vegetable garden, the radishes in the ground are growing well.
平凡的菜地，地里的韭菜长得很好。¤A mundane vegetable plot, with the chives growing well in the soil.
一间朴素的房屋，后院里挂满了染好的布。¤A simple house, with the backyard covered in dyed cloth.
要离开永安镇吗？¤Do you want to leave Yong'an Town?
一间朴素的房屋，看起来异样的寂静。¤A simple house, seemingly peculiarly quiet.
“三才者，天地人。三光者，日月星......”¤The three principles are heaven, earth, and humanity. The three luminaries are the sun, moon, and stars...
正值传道受业时，孩童稚嫩的朗朗读书声从学堂内传出。¤During the time of receiving teachings and mastering skills, the youthful and inexperienced voice of children reading loudly can be heard from the school.
你品味着镇上淡淡的烟火气息，心神有所触动。¤You savor the faint scent of fireworks in the town, your heart and mind moved.
世俗人的小镇给你带来了不一样的生活体悟，让你回忆起许多已被忘记的事情。¤The small town of ordinary people brings you a different perspective on life, reminding you of many forgotten things.
一间朴素的房屋，屋子里的人似乎不在。¤A plain house, it seems that no one is inside.
一间朴素的房屋，屋子的主人也许出门了。¤A plain house, perhaps the owner is out.
一间朴素的房屋，屋后的院子里晒着很多干鱼。¤A simple house, with many dried fish hanging in the courtyard behind it.
一间朴素的房屋，屋外的篱笆上挂满了菜干。¤A plain house, the fence outside is full of dried vegetables.
平平无奇的商铺，卖的都是些于你无用的东西。¤A plain and unremarkable shop, selling things that are useless to you.
富丽堂皇的建筑，和小镇氛围格格不入。¤Grand and magnificent architecture, contrasting with the atmosphere of the small town.
规模不大的饭馆，看起来冷冷清清的。¤The small restaurant looks cold and empty.
凡人抓药治病的地方，不知为何门口排起了长队。¤At the place where mortals collect medicine to treat illnesses, a long queue has formed at the entrance for reasons unknown.
平凡的菜地，地里的土豆已有枯黄之相。¤The ordinary vegetable plot, where the potatoes in the earth have already turned yellow and withered.
平凡的菜地，地里的白菜已有枯黄之相。¤The ordinary vegetable plot, the Chinese cabbage in the ground already has a withered yellow appearance.
平凡的菜地，地里的萝卜已有枯黄之相。¤The ordinary vegetable plot, the radishes in the ground have already become yellow and withered.
你轻轻地叩了叩门。¤You gently knocked on the door.
什么带鱼山鲤鱼山的，我没听过这些，你还是问问别人吧。¤What do you mean by Daiyu Mountain and Luyu Mountain? I have never heard of these, you should ask someone else.
说完她警惕地看了你一眼，关上了门。¤After speaking, she looked at you warily, closed the door.
你找谁？¤Who are you looking for?
她的语气不善，看起来不太欢迎你的来访。¤Her tone was unpleasant, and she didn't seem very welcoming to your visit.
大婶可听过东边海上的岱舆山？¤Have you ever heard of the Daiyu Mountain on the east sea, Auntie?
我还是去问问别人吧...¤I'll just go and ask someone else...
想来是出于对外人的警惕，他说完便关上了门。¤I believe it is due to his wariness towards outsiders that he closed the door immediately after speaking.
不知这位兄弟可听过东边海上的岱舆山？¤I wonder if this brother has heard of Daiyu Mountain that lies over the Eastern Sea?
不曾听说，但住在对面的阿三经常出海，你不如去他那问问吧。¤I have never heard of it, but Ah San who lives across the street often goes out to the sea. You might as well go ask him.
请问何事？¤What's the matter?
门打开了一条小缝，他有些谨慎地打量着你。¤The door opened a small crack, and he cautiously observed you.
我还是去对面看看吧...¤I'll go to the opposite side to take a look...
学堂里空荡荡的，孩童和夫子都不在此处。¤The classroom is empty, there are no children or teachers here.
屋内一片寂静，似乎里面没有人。¤The interior of the house is quiet, as if no one is inside.
听闻你是修士后，他的脸色稍微缓和了几分，向你解释了家中的纠纷。¤Upon hearing that you are a cultivator, his facial expression eased a bit and he explained the dispute in his household to you.
你若不是修士，最好不要掺和此事。¤If you're not a cultivator, it's best not to get involved in this matter.
阿三话已至此，你决定不再隐瞒自己的修士身份，将自己寻找天蝉灵叶的事情告诉了他。¤Asan had come to this point in the conversation, and you decided not to hide your identity as a cultivator any longer, and told him about your search for Skyscada Leaves.
阿三兄弟可是遇上了什么难事？¤What kind of difficulty did the San brothers encounter?
你是修士？¤Are you a cultivator?
他的家中似乎出了什么变故，方才这小子有所隐瞒，你若想知道那岱舆山的消息不如做个顺水人情。¤It seems that something unusual happened in his family. The kid just now was hiding something. If you want to know the news of Daiyu Mountain, why not do a favor for me while you're at it? 
显然阿三也看到了血迹，他双拳紧握，睚眦欲裂，一副怒火中烧的模样。¤Obviously Ah San also saw the blood stains, he clenched his fists tightly, his eyes widened in anger, looking like he was burning with fury.
毕钟天...我饶不了你！¤Bizhongtian...I won't spare you!
看到屋内的景象，他面色苍白地冲了进去。你紧随其后，除了东倒西歪的家具外，墙角一滩鲜红的血迹吸引了你的注意。¤Upon seeing the scene inside the house, he rushed in with a pale face. You followed closely behind him, and aside from the scattered furniture, a pool of bright red blood in the corner of the wall caught your attention.
你思索了一下，认为魏无极所言不无道理。¤You thought about it and believed that what Wei Wuji said made sense.
他神色闪烁，看起来像是知道些什么。察觉到他的异样，你正想追问时他已经一把将门推开走了进去。¤His expression flickered, as if he knew something. Sensing his strangeness, you were about to inquire, but he had already pushed the door open and walked in.
阮娘！！！¤Ruan Niang !!!
你是阿三...？我听镇上的居民说你曾经去过东海，此次是来打听些关于海上仙山的事情。¤Are you Asan...? I heard from the residents in town that you have been to the East Sea before, and this time you came to inquire about the sea fairy mountain.
虽然我时常出海捕鱼，但未曾见过你口中的什么仙山，{xiongdi}请回吧。¤Although I often go out to sea to fish, I have never seen the immortal mountain you mentioned. Please leave, {xiongdi}.
身后突然传来的声音吓了你一跳，你转过身去，发现不知何时镇上的居民来到了这里。¤The sudden sound behind you startled you, and as you turned around, you found the residents of the town here for some unknown reason.
我是来拜访这间屋子的主人的，但他好像不在屋内，兄弟可知他去哪了？¤I came to visit the owner of this house, but it seems like he's not inside. Brother, do you know where he went?
可是我并不认识你，你特意找上门来所为何事？¤But I don't know you. Why did you come to me specifically?
你悄悄地凑近门缝，向屋内看去。¤You quietly approach the door crack and look inside the room.
只见屋内一片狼藉，桌椅皆倒在地上，瓷碗瓷碟碎了一地，你不禁大吃一惊。¤I saw a messy scene in the room, with tables and chairs overturned on the ground and porcelain dishes and plates shattered all over the floor, which surprised me.
你站在这鬼鬼祟祟地干什么？¤What are you doing here sneakily?
难道是阿三不在家...？¤Could it be that A-san isn't at home...?
你不死心地用力敲了敲门，孰料木门并没有拴上。¤You persistently knocked on the door, only to find that the wooden door was not locked.
老旧的木门发出吱嘎的声响，被你推开了一条缝隙。¤The old wooden door made a creaking sound as you pushed open a small gap.
十有八九是鲛人族氏，我猜这阮五娘亦是鲛人化形。¤Eight or nine out of ten are of the merfolk clan. I suspect that Ruan Wuniang is also a merfolk that has transformed. 
我怜惜阮娘的手，不愿让她受织布劳苦。奈何前些日子海上不平静，家里吃食短缺，阮娘为补贴家用便打算纺一匹霁光锦出来。¤I pity Ruan Niang's hands and do not want her to suffer from weaving hardships. However, the sea was not calm a few days ago, and our family lacked food. To make up for the household expenses, Ruan Niang planned to spin a piece of Ji Guang brocade.
取鲛人鳞片磨粉混入染缸，再将丝线浸入染料，以此线织成的布料在光下可似鲛人鳞片般熠熠生辉，这便是鲛纱。¤Grind the scales of the mermaid and mix them into the dyeing vat. Then soak the silk thread in the dyed vat and weave it into a fabric that shines like mermaid scales under the light. This is called mermaid yarn.
“鲛人鳞片？那这阮氏莫非......？”¤Mermaid scales? Then could it be that the Ruans are...
霁光锦...我似乎在什么地方听说过这东西。¤Jiguang Jin...I seem to have heard of this thing somewhere.
千年前这布料所制的道袍在修士中风靡一时，后因华而不实又被厌弃。要是我的记忆没出现偏差，霁光锦原名鲛纱，一帮修士附庸风雅偏要更名为霁光锦。¤A thousand years ago, the Dao robe made from this fabric was all the rage among cultivators, but it fell out of favor due to its flashy but impractical nature. If my memory serves me correctly, the fabric was originally known as Jiao Sha, but a group of cultivators who followed the latest trends insisted on renaming it Ji Guang Jin.
“鲛纱？”¤Mermaid gauze?
听了棠阿三的解释，你们决定早些前往毕钟天所在之地，救回阮五娘。¤After hearing Tang A San's explanation, you decide to head to Bi Zhongtian's location and rescue Ruan Wu Niang.
阮娘故乡便是岱舆山，若想知道更详细的消息只有救出阮娘后再向她打听了。¤Ruan Niang's hometown is Daiyu Mountain. If you want to know more detailed information, you can only inquire after saving Ruan Niang.
我只知道此山住民有擅阵法者，我们看到的迷雾皆为阵法的障眼术。¤I only know that the residents of this mountain are skilled in formations, and the mist we see is all an optical illusion created by the formations.
正是，你可知道怎么到岱舆山去？¤Certainly. Do you know how to get to Daiyu Mountain?
你说的可是东海上的岱舆山？¤Are you referring to Daiyu Mountain on the East Sea?
这贼窝就在镇子东侧的毕府，想来阮娘便是被掳到了那里。这歹人竟连着纺车同未织完的霁光锦一并带走了，实在可恨！¤This den of thieves is located in the east side of town at Bi Mansion. It is likely that Ruan Niang has been abducted there. These villains even took the spinning wheel and the unfinished Jiguang brocade together, which is truly despicable!
贼窝？¤Thief's den?
毕钟天炼气有好一阵了，不过他那贼窝喽啰众多，皆是他收回去的弟子。仗着有几分修为整天和毕钟天一样不学无术，到处向镇上的居民索要财物。¤Bi Zhongtian has been cultivating qi for quite some time, but he has many lackeys in his den who are his disciples that he took back. He relies on his somewhat cultivated abilities to constantly harass the residents of the town, just like Bi Zhongtian who lacks any proper skills and knowledge.
你可知他大概什么修为，是否好对付？¤Do you know roughly what level of cultivation he has and whether he's easy to deal with?
这毕钟天仗着修士身份横行霸道，欺凌弱小，永安镇被他搞得乌烟瘴气。我本想带着阮娘去武陵城暂避风头，没想到还没离开就出了事...¤This Bi Zhongtian relies on his identity as a cultivator to act arrogantly, bullying the weak, and causing Yong'an Town to be filled with smog. I originally intended to take Ruan Niang to Wuling City to avoid trouble, but unexpected incidents happened before we could leave.
熟料她刚织了不到一尺便被上门讨钱的毕钟天看见，他死缠烂打要阮娘替他织布卖钱，我二人仗着有些修为与他缠斗起来，他见奈何不得我俩便匆忙离去。想必他贼心不死，一直谋划带人上门将我娘子掳走！¤When Ruan Niang finished weaving a foot of cloth, Bi Zhongtian, who came to collect money, saw it. He persisted in asking Ruan Niang to weave more cloth for him to sell. We used our cultivation level to fight against him, but when he couldn't win, he left hastily. He must have bad intentions, and may be plotting to kidnap my wife!
只是阮氏隐居山林，鲜少现世，因此霁光锦有价无市，千金难求。¤It's just that Ms. Ruan lives in seclusion in the mountains and rarely shows herself, therefore the Jiguang Jin  is valuable but not available for sale, it's hard to obtain even with a thousand gold coins.
阮娘...并非永安镇上的人，阮氏一族擅长织布，以阮氏秘法织出的锦帛在太阳下金光闪烁，在月亮下波光粼粼，就连灯火映照也会泛出柔和的微光，故名霁光锦。¤Ruan Niang...was not a native of Yong'an Town. The Ruan family was skilled in weaving, and the silk woven using the Ruan family's secret method shimmered with golden light under the sun, and sparkled under the moon. Even under the light of lamps, it emitted a soft glow, hence the name Ji Guang Jin .
棠阿三有些迟疑地闭上了嘴，像是在思考要不要继续说下去。¤Tang A San hesitated for a moment, and then sealed his lips, as if considering whether or not to continue speaking.
阮娘名唤阮眉，因家中排行老五，镇上的人多唤她五娘。¤Ruan Niang's given name is Ruan Mei, as she is the fifth child in her family, many people in the town call her Wu Niang.
我以捕鱼为生，和阮娘也是在海上认识的。¤I make a living by fishing and I also met Ruan Niang at sea.
我本名棠山，因发音相似总被镇上人叫成棠三，久而久之他们便直接唤我阿三了。¤My real name is Tangshan, but because of similar pronunciation, the people in my town always called me Tang San. Over time, they just started calling me Ah San directly.
真可怜，年纪轻轻咋就整的脑袋不灵光了呢...¤So pitiful, how did someone so young end up with a dull mind...
谁啊，干啥玩意儿啊？¤Who is it? What are you up to?
这位弟兄可听过东边海上的岱舆山？¤Are you familiar with Daiyu Mountain in the eastern sea, Brother?
我家住这儿可老些年了，从来就没见过东边海上有山，大{xiongdi}还是早些回家吧。¤I have been living here for many years and have never seen mountains on the east sea. Big brother, it's better for you to go home early. 
不知为何，他有些怜悯地看了你一眼，然后关上了门。你凭着修真者超凡的听力听到他在屋内喃喃自语。¤For some reason, he looked at you with some pity, then closed the door. With the extraordinary hearing of a cultivator, you heard him muttering to himself inside the room.
平平无奇的商铺，今日似乎没有开张。¤A plain and ordinary shop that does not seem to be open today.
手脚麻利点！像个娘们儿似的磨磨唧...娘的，骂顺嘴了，忘了你他妈的本来就是娘们儿。¤Move quickly! Stop dawdling around like a woman...damn it, I cursed instinctively. I forgot that you were originally a woman.
混账东西！¤Damned thing!
阿三显然见不得五娘受一丁点委屈，面有怒色地看向了你。你向他点头示意，他冲上前一脚踹开了木门。¤Asan clearly couldn't bear to see Wu Niang suffer even a little bit, and looked at you with an angry expression. You nodded at him, and he charged forward and kicked open the wooden door.
门内情形被一五大三粗的男修遮得严严实实，想必他就是阿三口中的毕钟天了。¤The situation inside the door was completely covered by a burly male cultivator, presumably the Bi Zhongtian that Ah San mentioned.
来的什么人！要干什么事！¤What kind of people are coming! What business do they have!
你们还没踏进屋子，就听见里面传来震耳欲聋的呵斥声。¤You haven't even stepped into the room yet, but you can hear the deafening scolding coming from inside.
说罢，毕钟天就向你们的方向冲了过来。¤Having said that, Bi Zhongtian rushed towards your direction.
别以为找了个帮手老子就怕你，有本事手下见真章！¤Don't think that just because you've found a helper, I'm afraid of you. If you have the ability, show me what you're made of!
“果真是有什么样的师父就有什么样的徒弟...”¤Indeed, there is a correlation between the quality of the master and the quality of their disciples...
你掳了阮娘，还问我们来干什么，真是欺人太甚！¤You have abducted Ruan Niang, yet you still ask us what we are here for. This is truly going too far!
你用神识试探，发现此人虽有炼气修为，但体内灵气杂驳，隐有丹毒入体之相。看来他的修为是丹药堆砌而成，但增长修为的丹药价格昂贵，普通百姓根本负担不起。¤You use soul sense to probe, and find that although this person has qi refining cultivation, their spiritual energy is disorderly and there are signs of pill poison within their body. It appears that their cultivation is built on a foundation of pill consumption, but the cost of pills for increasing cultivation is expensive and ordinary people cannot afford it.
“看来这毕钟天能在此地作威作福，定是背后有人撑腰。”¤Seems like Bi Zhongtian is able to act tyrannically in this place, there must be someone backing him up from behind.
就是！放肆！你知道这是谁的地盘儿吗！¤Yes! Audacious! Do you know whose territory this is?
“这也太不学无术了...”¤This is too ignorant...
放...放...放...¤Release...release...release...
放肆！¤Reckless!
他们似乎把你当成了普通百姓，叫嚣着要让你长点记性。你看着他们嚣张至极的模样，决定出手给他们一点教训。¤They seem to treat you as a commoner and yell at you to be more mindful. You watch as they act extremely arrogant and decide to teach them a lesson.
你一踏入此地，便有几个衣着富贵，土财主状的百姓围了上来。你能察觉到他们身上微薄的灵气，这些应该就是阿三口中毕钟天的弟子了。¤As soon as you step into this land, several wealthy-looking locals, dressed like earthy tycoons, surround you. You can sense a faint spiritual energy from them – they should be disciples of Bi Zhongtian, as mentioned by A San.
小的有眼不识泰山！大侠饶命！仙师饶命！¤I, a small one, have eyes but failed to recognize Mount Tai! Great hero, spare my life! Immortal master, spare my life!
你不愿多做纠缠，他感恩戴德地跑出了毕府。¤You are unwilling to continue arguing, and he gratefully ran out of Bi Mansion.
此地堆放着粮食腊肉，以及各种珠宝首饰，想来是毕钟天从镇民那搜刮来的财物。¤This place is stocked with grain, cured meat, and various jewelry. It is likely that Bi Zhongtian looted these treasures from the town's residents.
凡人的东西你用不上，棠阿三对此也不感兴趣。¤You don't need mortal things, and Tang Ah San is also not interested in them.
你简单翻找了一下，将其中堪堪有用的丹药收进了储物袋。¤You easily searched through them and put the useful pills into the storage pouch.
他一边大喊一边一溜烟儿地跑了。¤He yelled and ran away in a flash.
师父！师父！有人砸场子！¤Master! Master! Someone is causing trouble in the premises!
前面第一个摊位上那本{color=#d0380a}聚气{/color}倒是挺适合你的。学会积攒灵气灵活调度，再遇上沂山派至少不会落得一身伤了。¤The book on the first stall in front of you, {color=#d0380a}Qi Gathering{/color}, is quite suitable for you. If you learn to accumulate spiritual energy and flexibly manage it, you won't end up with injuries next time you encounter the Yishan Sect.
喂，魏老头，你不总吹自己见多识广，快帮我挑几件厉害的宝贝呗？¤Hey, Old Wei, you always claim to be knowledgeable, help me pick some powerful treasures, will ya?
这种低阶修士的集会你还想指望淘到啥宝贝。再说了，就算真有什么好东西，你能买得起么？¤Do you really expect to find any treasures at such a gathering of low-level cultivators? Besides, even if there were great items for sale, could you afford them? 
顺着人群，你信步来到坊市，广场周围早已摆起了不少的货摊，修士们三两成群，围在各个摊位前讨价还价，熙熙攘攘，好不热闹。¤Following the crowd, you casually stroll towards the market, where numerous stalls have already been set up around the square. Cultivators gather in small groups, haggling over prices at various booths amidst the hustle and bustle.
还没到集会开始的日子，坊市里空荡荡的。¤It's still not the day the gathering begins, and the market is empty.
（这阵法对我的压制作用是有些强，而且五行灵气的浓度已经是低到难以吸收利用的程度了，得想办法与炎萧{$ChenHao}配合一番快速解决战斗。）¤(This array is suppressing me quite heavily, and the concentration of the five elements' spiritual energy is already so low that it's difficult to absorb and utilize. I need to figure out a way to quickly resolve this combat with the assistance of Yan Xiao {$ChenHao}.)
过去看看吧。¤Let's go take a look in the past.
像是坚定了什么想法似的，那三个元婴期魔修见到你不但没有逃跑，反而是疯了一般再无保留地全力用各色玄紫色神通轰杀炎萧。¤It seems like they have made up their minds about something. The three nascent soul stage demonic cultivators did not try to escape when they saw you, but instead went crazy and used all kinds of divine skills of purple color to attack Yan Xiao without holding back.
（其中应该是各种灵气稀薄，反倒是魔气弥漫。若是贸然闯入其中却又不能快速解决其中魔修，只怕事情会非常棘手。）¤(Among them, the spiritual energy is scarce, but the magic qi is pervasive. If one rashly ventures in but cannot quickly resolve the demon cultivators within, the situation may become very tricky.)
其中被围攻的修士果然是离火门的炎萧。¤The cultivator who was besieged is indeed Yan Xiao from the Fire Gate Sect.
这里怎会有魔气？¤Why is there magic qi here?
（这阵法还算有点意思，以魔气为基压制其中的五行灵气，非魔道修士在其中战斗只会如陷泥沼，挣扎越强，陷入越深，久而久之还得面对灵气枯竭的绝境。反倒是设阵者可以利用源源不断的魔气愈战愈强。）¤(The array is quite interesting, as it suppresses the five-element spiritual energy with magic qi. Nonpractitioners of the demonic cultivation will struggle in combat within it, sinking deeper the more they struggle, eventually facing the critical situation of depleted spiritual energy. On the other hand, the array's creator can use the constantly replenishing magic qi to become stronger in battle.)
炎萧见状也是大笑一声，像是要出一口被围攻的恶气一般，主动放弃闪躲转而选择全力强攻。¤Yan Xiao laughed heartily upon seeing the situation, as if releasing the pent-up frustration of being surrounded, and chose to abandon evasion and instead launch a full-force attack.
在看那阵法中心处，一道浴火的身影与三抹快与阵法内的玄紫色魔气融为一体的看不真切的诡影正斗得正酣。¤Looking at the center of the array, a figure bathed in fire and three indistinct shadows blending with the mysterious purple magic qi in the array are fighting vigorously.
你对阵法稍作评论后，看准方位便是几道灵气飞掠而去。¤After briefly commenting on the array, you carefully determine the direction and several streams of spiritual energy rush towards it.
（这魔气墙好像是什么独特阵法的一部分，目前仅能看出是以困为主，只是不但能困住修士，甚至对灵气也有较强的限制作用。）¤(This magic qi wall seems to be a part of some unique array, currently only able to see that it mainly focuses on trapping. Not only is it able to trap cultivators, but it also has a strong restrictive effect on spiritual energy.)
（果然不出我所料，这阵法内五行灵气的浓度已经是低到难以吸收利用的程度了，得想办法与炎萧{$ChenHao}配合一番快速解决战斗。）¤(As I expected, the concentration of the Five Elements spiritual energy within this array has already reached such a low level that it's difficult to absorb and use. We must quickly figure out a way to cooperate with Yan Xiao {$ChenHao} to resolve the combat.)
离魔气的源头应该是不远了，而这几分特别的火灵气还是难以察觉，看来正主是被什么阵法困住了难以脱身。¤The source of the magic qi should not be far away, and these peculiar fire spirits are still difficult to detect. It seems that the protagonist is trapped by some array and cannot escape.
你并未在意这些全无生气的躯壳，只是将目光投向相斗的两方修士。¤You didn't pay attention to the lifeless bodies, but instead focused your gaze on the two cultivators who were fighting each other.
来的不知是哪方魔修，但此行的确是下了些本钱。¤I'm not sure which demonic cultivator is coming, but this trip did cost some money.
那酝酿着攻击向你踏空而来的两个魔修还未与你交上手，便听身后的同门已是招架不住大声呼救。其中一人只好赶忙回救，仅留一个女性魔修与你对峙。¤The two demonic cultivators preparing to strike at you suddenly missed their target. Before they could engage with you, one of your fellow disciples behind you shouted for help, unable to withstand the attack. One of the attackers had to rush back to help, leaving only one female demonic cultivator to face you.
这魔气浓度真是令人咂舌，比起天魔眼外围的核心区也是不遑多让。¤The concentration of magic qi is truly astounding, and it's just as impressive as the core area outside the eye of the heavenly demons.
见你破开阵法，三个魔修都是迟疑了片刻，而后都像是疯了一般再无保留地全力用各种神通轰杀炎萧。¤Upon seeing you break the array, the three demon cultivators hesitated for a moment, before going crazy and using all kinds of divine skills to bombard Yan Xiao without reservation.
但后者也是战斗经验丰富，知道自己只要再撑上片刻便能迎来你的援助，不再尝试反击，大笑一声后开始一味地躲闪可能会令其重伤或是致命的攻击。¤However, the latter is also experienced in combat and knows that as long as they hold on for a moment longer, they can receive your assistance. They no longer try to counterattack, laughing loudly before continuously dodging possible attacks that could cause them serious injury or even be fatal.
嗯，炎萧{$ChenHao}前些日子有事前往天魔眼，而后应是往{color=#d0380a}雷鸣海域{/color}方向去了，目前应该在{color=#d0380a}东南方{/color}¤Hmm, Yan Xiao {$ChenHao} went to the Heavenly Demon's Eye a few days ago and then headed towards the Thunder Sea. Currently, he should be in the southeast direction.
魔气...还夹杂着些许火灵气，探测不到战斗发生的地点，却能感受到战斗带来的灵气变化。至少是元婴巅峰的战斗，看来炎萧{$ChenHu}确实有可能在这片海域，只是可能遇上了一点麻烦。¤The magic qi... also has a few fire spirit qi mixed in, I can't detect the location of the battle, but I can feel the change in spirit qi brought about by the battle. At least it's battle at the Yuan Ying Peak, it seems that Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} really has a chance in this sea area, but may have encountered a little trouble.
不管来多少次，这片海域都还是一模一样。¤No matter how many times they come, this sea area is still exactly the same.
当然，也有修士点缀其中，或乘灵舟，或御器飞行，也不乏体修亦或是实力强大者仅凭肉身和半丈护体灵气横渡海域。¤Of course, there are also cultivators interspersed among them, either riding on spirit boats or flying on tools, and there are also those who rely solely on their physical bodies and half-zhang's worth of protective spiritual energy to cross the sea, whether they are body cultivators or simply powerful individuals.
只见他以一敌三却是越战越勇。那道浴火的身影仗着身法精妙，总是能躲过魔修大多数攻击，只是腰口有一道深可见骨的伤痕，但看着也没太拖累着他。¤Only seeing him facing three enemies alone, but he becomes more brave as he fights. The figure who bathed in fire relies on his exquisite body technique and can always evade most of the attacks from the devil cultivators. However, there is a deep wound visible on his waist, but it doesn't seem to slow him down too much.
你的到来让几个魔修心神一动，那最外围的一个直接便转而像你发动起了攻击。¤Your arrival made several demonic cultivators restless, and the one furthest out immediately turned to launch a strike towards you.
随着对敌人数的减少，炎萧顿时感觉压力全无，大笑一声后，竟是转守为攻，狂暴的火属性神通一时间让剩下的两个魔修有些措手不及，都吃了些小亏后才勉强稳住局面。¤As the number of enemies decreased, Yan Xiao suddenly felt no pressure, laughing loudly before turning to offense. His wildly raging fire attribute divine skill caught the remaining two demon cultivators off guard, causing them to suffer some minor losses before barely stabilizing the situation.
随着兽骸与风浪飞速退去，周遭的魔气也是愈发浓烈。除此之外，还有几分炽灼的气息隐藏于中。¤As the carcasses and waves recede rapidly, the surrounding magic qi becomes even more intense. In addition, there is a hint of burning aura hidden within.
阵法中心处，本与一道浴火身影缠斗在一处的三抹玄紫色诡影听到你的自言自语后，先是一滞，而后皆是满脸惊惧之色。¤At the center of the formation array, three dark purple shadows entangled in a bath of fire, upon hearing your self-talk, first froze, then all showed fearful expressions on their faces.
料想离魔气的源头应该是不会太远了，正主若真是炎萧{$ChenHu}和某路魔道，怕是少不了一战了。¤It is likely that the source of the magic qi is not too far away. If the true protagonist is Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} and some demonic path, it is feared that there will be a battle.
只见他以一敌三却是越战越勇。那道浴火的身影仗着身法精妙，总是能躲过魔修大多数攻击，只是腰口有一道深可见骨的伤痕，但看着也没太拖累着他。倒是炎萧偶尔寻得一丝空隙便是全力反扑，强大的爆发力倒让那些魔修有些畏惧，一反压制性的打法，变得每每攻击时还留着三分谨慎。其中最弱的一位甚至在吃了几次小亏后转到战斗外围改用神通进行远程骚扰。¤Only to see him fighting against three opponents with increasing courage. The figure bathed in fire, relying on exquisite body technique, was always able to dodge most of the attacks from the demonic cultivators. However, there was a deep wound visible to the bone on his waist, but it didn't seem to slow him down. On the other hand, Yan Xiao occasionally found a gap and fiercely counterattacked with strong explosive power, making those demonic cultivators somewhat fearful. By changing from suppressive tactics to cautious attacks, they had to be careful every time they attacked. The weakest one even turned to using divine skills for long-range harassment after suffering a few losses in close combat.
（况且，虽说被困的修士也是专精火系，但我也不能肯定他便是炎萧{$ChenHu}，也许先坐观其变更好？）¤(Moreover, even though the trapped cultivator specializes in the fire element, I cannot be certain that he is Yan Xiao {$ChenHu}. Perhaps it is better to wait and see what happens?)
那被围攻的身影即便以一敌三也是越战越勇，只见他仗着身法精妙总能躲过大多数攻击，令三个魔修深觉棘手，只是腰口有一道深可见骨的伤痕，但看着也没太拖累着他。¤Despite being surrounded and outnumbered, the figure fighting back is becoming more and more courageous. He relies on his exquisite footwork to evade most attacks and makes it difficult for the three demon cultivators. Although there is a deep bone-visible scar on his waist, it doesn't appear to be slowing him down.
（况且，虽说被困的修士也是专精火系，但我也不能肯定他便是炎萧{$ChenHao}，也许先坐观其变更好？）¤(Furthermore, even though the trapped cultivator is proficient in fire cultivation, I cannot be certain that he is Yan Xiao {$ChenHao}. Perhaps it would be better to wait and see how things develop?)
再前行一段时间，“景色”终于有些不同。¤After a period of time, the scenery finally became somewhat different.
初一闯入阵法便像是冲入泥沼一般，竟连你这元婴修士也有些感觉行动受制。不过在灵气护罩的效用下，倒也很快就习惯了。¤The first time entering the array felt like plunging into a quagmire, even restricting the movement of a nascent soul cultivator like you. But with the protective shield of spiritual energy, you quickly adapt.
除却满溢着魔气的海水外，一面横截水天的玄紫色魔气墙突兀地出现在你眼前。¤Apart from the sea water overflowing with magic qi, a purple magic qi wall suddenly appeared before your eyes, cutting through the sky above the water.
这阵法果然不出我所料，对寻常修士确实有些压制的作用，但对化神修士来说，只会有些不适感而已。¤This array is indeed as I expected, it does have a suppressing effect on ordinary cultivators, but for deity transformation cultivators, they will only feel a little discomfort.
（若是不出我所料，要破这阵法易如反掌。）¤(If it is as I expected, breaking this array will be as easy as turning over a hand.)
仔细思考后，本着不管被困修士是否是炎萧，坏了魔修的好事总归有意义的念头，再加上对自己实力有足够的自信，你决定闯入阵法。¤After careful consideration, with the thought that causing trouble for demonic cultivators is always meaningful regardless of whether the trapped cultivator is Yan Xiao or not, and with enough confidence in your own strength, you decide to break into the array. 
哼，区区元婴期魔修，安敢在此造次！¤Hmph, how dare a mere nascent soul stage demonic cultivator cause chaos here!
又前行一段时间后，随之愈盛的魔气甚至令空间都有一种令人厌恶的黏着感，再加上迅速昏暗下来的视野，仿若连光线都因之停滞。但炽灼的气息却没有同时增强，还是在魔气中若隐若现，难以察觉。¤After advancing for some time, the increasingly intense magic qi even caused a disgusting stickiness in the space. Coupled with the rapidly dimming visibility, it seemed as if even the light had stopped because of it. However, the burning sensation did not increase at the same time, it still flickered in the magic qi, making it difficult to perceive.
{$NpcName}{$DaoYou}，炎萧{$ChenHu}不在宗门么？¤{$NpcName}{$DaoYou}, is Yan Xiao not in the clan?
几声惨叫也是因之而起，随后魔气墙也是逐渐淡化化为普通的魔气重归天地，而后几具全无生气的躯壳落入海中，溅起数朵水花后再无声息。¤Several screams also arose because of it, and then the magic qi wall gradually faded and returned to the normal magic qi of the world, followed by several lifeless bodies falling into the sea, splashing up a few water flowers before falling silent.
初一闯入阵法便像是冲入泥沼一般，粘稠到无形却有质的玄紫色魔气令你这金丹修士竟有些难以行动。还好驱动灵气护罩后算是能正常行动。¤Entering the formation on the first day was like charging into a swamp, the thick and tangible violet magic qi made it difficult for this golden core cultivator to move. Fortunately, after activating the spiritual energy shield, they were able to move normally.
透过这魔气墙，一个浑身浴火的身影依稀可见，却不知是在被何人围攻，令他不得不在小范围内不断闪躲腾挪。¤Through the wall of magic qi, a figure covered in flames can vaguely be seen. However, it is unclear who is attacking them, forcing them to constantly dodge and move in a small area.
嗯，之前在海外遇见白帝，让我前往天魔眼调查一番。但登门造访玄道宗后，他们老祖不在门内，长老又不能越权放我进天魔眼。只是最后提到炎萧{$ChenHao}此前到访过天魔眼，让我先向他询问一番其中核心区是否有异象发生。¤Hmm, I met the White Emperor abroad before and he asked me to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye. However, when I went to visit the Xuan Dao Sect, their ancestor was not inside the gate and the elder couldn't authorize me to enter the Heavenly Devil's Eye. They only mentioned that Yan Xiao {$ChenHao} had visited the Heavenly Devil's Eye before, so I was advised to ask him about any abnormal occurrences in the core area before proceeding.
随着受害风浪飞速退去，周遭的魔气也是愈发浓烈。除此之外，炽灼的气息也是一并升腾。¤As the aftermath of the disaster rapidly recedes, the magic qi in the surroundings becomes increasingly intense. In addition, the blazing aura also rises.
更不用说这人还偶尔能寻得一丝空隙，全力反扑一番，强大的爆发力反倒是令那些魔修畏惧不已，一反压制性的打法，变得每每攻击时还留着三分谨慎，其中最弱的一个甚至在吃了几次小亏后转到战斗外围改用神通进行远程骚扰。¤Moreover, this person could sometimes find a gap and launch a full counterattack, which made those demonic cultivators fear his powerful explosive force. He changed his suppressive fighting style and became more cautious when attacking, making even the weakest of them switch to using their divine skills for long-range harassment after suffering a few small losses in combat.
总之，先去魔气的源头探查一番再说吧。¤In any case, let's first investigate the source of the magic qi before deciding what to do.
面对如此广袤的一片海域，但肉眼之所及，神识之所至，却只有惊涛迭起的深蓝大海。既不见海兽，亦难寻修士，倒是有两者的残躯飘扬在怒涛之上，静默地承受着夹杂魔气的灼热不祥灵气中。¤Faced with such a vast sea, the naked eye and the divine sense only see the deep blue sea with tidal waves. Sea beasts and cultivators are hard to find, but the remains of both float on the raging waves, silently enduring the scorching and ominous spiritual energy mixed with magic qi.
你步入阵法后只觉举手投足之间有些微的束缚感，但也没太过在意。¤You step into the array and feel a slight binding sensation with every movement, but don't pay too much attention to it.
据之前的消息，炎萧{$ChenHu}貌似就在这片海域，这异象与他有关？而且这些尸骸...难道说...他从天魔眼出来后不知何故引来了魔修或是魔物？¤According to previous information, Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} seems to be in this sea area, is this phenomenon related to him? And these corpses...could it be that he somehow attracted demon cultivators or demon beasts after coming out of the Heavenly Devil's Eye?
仔细思考后，本着不管被困修士是否是炎萧，坏了魔修的好事总归有意义，甚至可能捞到些好处的念头，再加上对自己实力有足够的自信，你决定闯入阵法。¤After careful consideration, following the principle that whether the trapped cultivator is Yan Xiao or not, disrupting the plans of demon cultivators always has some meaning, and there may even be some benefits to be gained. Together with enough confidence in your own strength, you decide to break into the array.
倒是炎萧偶尔寻得一丝空隙便是全力反扑，强大的爆发力倒让那些魔修有些畏惧，一反压制性的打法，变得每每攻击时还留着三分谨慎。其中最弱的一位甚至在吃了几次小亏后转到战斗外围改用神通进行远程骚扰。¤On the other hand, Yan Xiao occasionally found a gap and counterattacked with full force, which made those demon cultivators somewhat fearful of his powerful explosive power. He changed his suppressing playstyle, causing them to become more cautious with each attack. The weakest one even switched to using divine skills for long-range harassment on the outskirts of combat after suffering a few small losses.
面对如此广袤的一片海域，但肉眼之所及，神识之所至，却只有惊涛迭起的深蓝大海。既不见海兽，亦难寻修士，倒是有两者的残躯飘扬在怒涛之上，静默地承受着夹杂魔气的不祥灵气之侵蚀。¤In the face of such a vast sea, visible to the naked eye and within the range of the soul sense, there is only a deep blue ocean with surging tidal waves. There are no sea beasts or cultivators to be found, but the remains of the two can be seen floating on the raging waves, silently enduring the erosion of ominous spiritual energy mixed with magic qi.
魔气！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Magic qi! {vpunch=10,0.5} 
你的到来让几个魔修心神一动，马上便快速分出两人像是要快速解决你，而后再借助阵法慢慢耗死炎萧。¤Your arrival caused a stir in the hearts and minds of a few demonic cultivators. Immediately, two of them split off to deal with you quickly, and then slowly wear down Yan Xiao with the use of an array.
但，此次稍有不同。不，若是气感敏锐些，该说是大有不同才对。¤However, there is a slight difference this time. No, if one's sense of qi is more keen, it should be said that there is a great difference.
找他有事？¤Looking for him for something?
你皱了皱眉头，但想到布阵者乃是魔修，也只是叹了口气开始观察相斗的两方修士。¤You furrowed your eyebrows, but upon realizing that the person who set up the formation was a demonic cultivator, you only sighed and began observing the two battling cultivators.
纵是高阶修仙者也难究其底的深蓝之海，充斥天地的不祥灵气，随波潜伏的狂躁海兽，三者组成了海域的主体。¤Even high-level cultivators find it difficult to fathom the depths of the dark blue sea, filled with ominous spiritual energy that permeates the heavens and earth. The raging sea beasts that lurk beneath the waves make up the primary inhabitants of this region.
见你破开阵法，魔修也是迅速分出两人。似乎是觉得你最多是阵法修为不俗，战斗能力不过一般，想要迅速解决你再慢慢耗死炎萧。¤Upon seeing you break the array, the demonic cultivator quickly split into two. It seems that he thinks you are only skilled in array cultivation but have average combat ability, and wants to quickly deal with you before slowly killing Yan Xiao.
炎萧{$ChenHao}小心，我来援助你了！¤Yan Xiao, be careful. I'm here to help you!
多谢提醒。¤Thank you for the reminder.
不过几个呼吸间，未等魔修对炎萧造成实质伤害，你已是出手！¤Within a few breaths, before the demonic cultivator could cause substantial harm to Yan Xiao, you had already taken action!
但炎萧{$ChenHao}所在之处凶险异常，{color=#d0380a}最好准备充分再前往{/color}。¤However, the place where Yan Xiao {$ChenHao} is located is extremely dangerous, so it is {color=#d0380a}better to be fully prepared before venturing there{/color}.
（只是这雷鸣海中的稀薄魔气不足以支撑该阵法，魔气又不像五行灵气达到均衡后可以自行相生，达到生生不息的效果。想要维持该阵法，应当是在阵基上下足了功夫而已。）¤(Only, the sparse magic qi in the Thunder Sea is not enough to support this array. Unlike the five elements' spiritual qi, which can self-generate when balanced, the magic qi cannot reach an effect of eternal growth. To maintain this array, one should put enough effort into the foundation of the array.)
速速离去...莫要...侵扰本座修行...¤Quickly leave...do not...disturb this seat's cultivation...
汝...应也属一方强者...本座...无意与汝争斗...¤Thou... should also belong to a strong faction... This seat... has no intention to fight with thee...
人类...？¤Humanity...?
区区...{$jingjie}...也敢侵扰本座修行？¤Even a mere...{$jingjie}...dares to disturb my cultivation?
似乎有什么东西正盯着你...¤It seems like something is staring at you...
此处似乎就是上古龙宫，要进去吗？¤This seems to be the Ancient Dragon Palace, do you want to go in?
还是先去救人比较重要。¤Still, it's more important to save people first.
这里就是敖灵所说的遗迹了吧。¤Is this the ruins that Ao Ling was talking about?
你并没有在意码头那些交头接耳的修士，大步流星地向城内走去。¤You did not pay attention to the cultivators whispering at the pier and strode quickly into the city. 
你认为自己的实力已无需忌惮千流岛，于你而言，打败他们不过是举手之劳。¤You think that your strength is no longer afraid of Myriad Rivers Island. To you, it is just a piece of cake to defeat them.
我好像没有修习过隐匿身形的功法...¤I seem to have never practiced the technique of concealing my body shape...
你收敛起息，悄无声息地溜进了千流岛。¤You held your breath and silently slipped into Myriad Rivers Island.
{w}{w=0.5}你想起先前逃离圣地时惹出的事端，恐怕明目张胆地进岛会引来岛上势力的注意，你决定...¤{w}{w=0.5}You remember the trouble you caused when you fled from the Holy Land earlier. You fear that openly entering the island will draw attention from the local powers. You decide...
千流岛目前恐怕已经一片混乱，我也没什么再到这里的必要了。¤Currently, it seems that Myriad Rivers Island is already in chaos. There's no need for me to come here again.
但这租金……要是闭关个几年，那真是心疼啊……¤But this rent... if I were to close up for a few years, it would really be heartbreaking...
看不出你这{xiaozi}还挺守信的，那就自己闭关时多留几个心眼，别错过了时日。¤I can't tell that you are quite trustworthy, {xiaozi}. Then when you're cultivating, keep a sharper eye out and don't let time pass you by.
聚灵阵是一种用灵石布下的基础阵法，可以慢慢地将周天的灵气汇聚集中起来，放在老夫当年，可都是修真门派才有这样的手笔。¤The Gathering Spirit Formation is a basic formation laid out using spiritual stones. It slowly gathers the spiritual energy from the surrounding area. In my old age, only the sects of cultivation have such skills.
舍不得身外之物，还想逆天改命觅长生？如此条件在这东石谷已经很难得了，快去租个客房试试，看看修炼效果如何。¤Reluctant to give up worldly possessions, yet seeking to defy fate and search for immortality? Such an opportunity is rare in the East Stone Valley. Rent a guest room and see the effects of cultivation for yourself.
单击右下角{color=#d0380a}客房{/color}进行租住，或单击左侧{color=#d0380a}角色列表{/color}中客栈掌柜进行交互。¤Click on the {color=#d0380a}Guest Room{/color} in the lower right corner to rent, or click on the innkeeper in the {color=#d0380a}Character List{/color} on the left side for interaction.
可我这一闭关，万一错过了{color=#d0380a}下个月{/color}和倪兄弟的约定，岂不误事？¤But if I were to enter seclusion now, what if I miss the appointment with Brother Ni {color=#d0380a}next month{/color}? It would be a missed opportunity.
对于修真者来说，在一个灵气充裕的地方{color=#d0380a}闭关{/color}修炼，是可以事半功倍的。¤For cultivators, {color=#d0380a}seclusion{/color} practice in a place abundant with spiritual energy can greatly increase their efficiency. 
聚灵阵？那是什么？¤What is the Spirit Gathering Array? 
有意思，这客栈里还布下了一个小型的聚灵阵。¤Interesting, there is also a small spirit gathering array set up in this inn. 
慢步走进客栈，没有想象中的喧闹，大厅之中只有几位修士在悠闲地喝着灵茶，稍一运气，只觉一股浓郁的灵气扑面而来，你精神一振，顿时神清气爽。¤Walking slowly into the inn, it was not as noisy as expected. There were only a few cultivators drinking spirit tea leisurely in the lobby. With a bit of luck, a strong spiritual energy hit you, refreshing your mind and body.
不过老夫记得你那小兄弟说过，自己是{color=#d0380a}武陵城{/color}中之人。去那里说不定还能找到他。¤However, I remember that your little brother said he was from {color=#d0380a}Wuling City{/color}. Going there might allow us to find him.
修真无日月，若是有{color=#d0380a}重要的事情{/color}要办，还是得在闭关时多留些心眼。¤Cultivation has no sun and moon. If there is something {color=#d0380a}important{/color} to do, one still has to be more mindful during seclusion.
糟糕，这次闭关的时间太久，这下可错过了和倪兄弟约定的时间了！¤Oh no, the time spent in seclusion this time was too long, now I've missed the time I agreed to meet with Brother Ni!
倪兄弟还在等我呢，现在可不是闭关修炼的时候...¤Brother Ni is still waiting for me. Now is not the time for closed-door cultivation...
不知管家可知百里兄去向？¤Do you know where Brother Baili went, Elder?
管事言辞间神色闪躲，大抵是有什么事瞒着你。¤The steward avoided eye contact while speaking, indicating they may be hiding something from you.
可前往化龙海域少说也要一年半载，百里奇此时还能去哪呢？¤It would take at least a year or two to reach the Shifting Dragon Sea area. Where else can Baili Qi go at this time?
你决定去百里奇的房间探查一番，看看能否找到什么线索。¤You decided to investigate Baili Qi's room and see if you can find any clues.
仙长莫不是拿我说笑吧？我在百里府干了许多年，还未听说过有甚么秘境。¤The keywords in this sentence are 仙长  and 秘境 .
他回答完你的问题，便匆匆地去忙手上的事务了。¤He answered your question and then hurriedly went to deal with his business.
少主应该是出府历练了，家主或许会比较清楚吧。¤The young master should have left the house for training, the head of the household might be more aware of it.
你刚离开大厅，便看见百里府的管家形色匆匆的走过，你连忙叫住了他...¤You had just left the grand hall when you saw the steward of Baili Mansion hastily walking by. You quickly called out to him...
仙长何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤Immortal Master, what brings you here?
看来百里奇断然不是像百里邑所说，前往族中秘境历练。¤It seems that Baili Qi definitely did not go to the clan's secret realm to train, as Baili Yi claimed.
你决定先向百里府众人打听一下百里奇的去向。¤You decide to first inquire about the whereabouts of Baili Qi from the people of Baili Mansion.
你敏锐地察觉到此事定有蹊跷，说不定与龙珠有关。¤You keenly perceive that there must be something unusual about this matter, maybe related to the Dragon Ball.
你正疑惑之际，身旁恰巧路过一位百里家小厮。¤You are in doubt, but just at that moment, a maid servant from the Baili family happens to pass by your side. 
不好意思，你可知你们少主如今人在何处？¤I'm sorry, do you know where your young master is located now?
那小厮面有难色，支吾了半天才憋出来一句话，告诉你百里奇历练去后便飞快地消失在了院中。¤The maid servant looked uneasy and hesitated for a while before managing to utter a sentence, telling you that Baili Qi disappeared quickly in the courtyard after his training.
奇怪，百里兄并不像是失信之人，可他不在家中又去了哪里呢？¤Strange, Brother Baili doesn't seem like an untrustworthy person, but where has he gone if he's not at home?
你轻轻地叩了叩门，房间里无人应答。¤You gently knocked on the door, but there was no response in the room.
房间的门紧闭着，你选择...¤The door of the room is tightly closed, you choose...
你的神识并不够强大，贸然探查可能会引起府内之人的注意，还是想想其他办法吧...¤Your soul sense is not strong enough. Recklessly exploring could attract attention from the people in the mansion. Think of another solution.
你并未修习敛息的功法，贸然探查可能会引起府内之人的注意，还是想想其他办法吧...¤You have not cultivated the technique of restraint. Conducting a hasty investigation may attract the attention of others in the mansion. It is better to think of other methods instead.
一阵天旋地转过后，你来到了一个与方才截然不同的地方。¤After a moment of dizziness and disorientation, you arrived in a completely different place from before.
那阵法刻在一只珐琅多宝瓶底，你思虑片刻最后果决地触发了它。¤The array was engraved at the bottom of a cloisonne treasure bottle. After thinking for a moment, you decisively triggered it.
你决定趁周围没人偷偷地溜进屋子，找到刚才令你注意的阵法。¤You decide to sneak into the house while there's no one around and find the array that caught your attention earlier.
屋子里像是有什么阵法......¤The room seems to have some sort of array formation inside.
你用神识仔细地扫过屋子的每个角落，一处奇异的灵力波动吸引了你的注意。¤You carefully scanned every corner of the room with your soul sense, and were drawn to an unusual spiritual energy fluctuation in one spot.
你且去看看那桌子上摆的多宝瓶，我感觉这东西有些古怪。¤You go take a look at the precious treasure bottle on that table. I feel like there's something strange about it.
你凑上前去，只觉得这掐丝珐琅多宝瓶华美异常，拿在手中也颇有分量。¤You approach and feel that this enamel decorated treasure bottle is exceptionally beautiful, and it also has some weight when held in your hand.
将瓶外检查一遍后你举起瓶子，侧头向瓶内望去，只见一方小巧繁复的阵法在瓶底熠熠生辉。¤After checking outside the bottle, you lift it up and tilt your head to look inside. You see a small and intricate array shining brightly at the bottom of the bottle.
你思虑片刻最后果决地触发了它，一阵天旋地转过后，你来到了一个与方才截然不同的地方。¤After a moment of deliberation, you decisively triggered it, and after a dizzying rotation, you arrived at a place completely different from before.
屋子十分整洁，看起来刚刚被打扫过。¤The room is very clean and looks like it has just been cleaned.
房间的门紧闭着...¤The door of the room is tightly closed.
还是先向百里家主打听一下吧...¤Let's first inquire with the Baili family's head...
浓雾渐起...¤Thick fog gradually rises...
你与倪旭欣自南崖城出发抵达图南海后，纵是知道图南漩涡的大致方位，也还是在这片海域里白白寻觅了数年。乃至你已经多次怀疑这碎星商会情报的真实性。¤After departing from South Cliff City with Ni Xuxin, you arrived at South Tu Sea. Even though you roughly knew the location of South Tu Whirlpool in this sea area, you still searched in vain for several years. You even began to doubt the authenticity of the intelligence from Shattered Star Merchant Guild.
前有天机阁，现在又是碎星商会，情报还真是不靠谱。¤In the past it was the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, now it's the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. The intelligence is really unreliable.
哦，其实也没那么奇怪，刚从广陵城出海时，倪旭欣还觉得无尽之海的一切都很新奇，与陆地上完全不同的海上妖兽，危险但陆地难见的灵气乱流，满是修士的海上交易岛屿等。¤Oh, it's not that strange, actually. When we just left Guangling City and set sail on the Endless Sea, Ni Xuxin found everything to be very fascinating. There were sea spirit beasts that were completely different from the ones on land, dangerous spiritual surges that were rare on land, and trade islands bustling with cultivators.
出奇地，倪旭欣没有附和你。¤Surprisingly, Ni Xuxin did not agree with you.
所以，倪旭欣为了给自己找点乐子，已然开始在灵舟上钓鱼。只是以灵舟的速度，普通的鱼甚至来不及反应更不用说咬钩了。¤Therefore, Ni Xuxin, in order to amuse herself, has already started fishing on the Spirit Boat. However, due to the speed of the Spirit Boat, normal fish can’t even react, let alone bite the bait.
但一段时间后，尤其是在图南海花了大量时间寻找图南漩涡后，倪旭欣再也不能忍受枯燥的无尽之海了。在宁州时，以他元婴期的修为御剑甚至能在数天内从武陵城飞到隔壁衡州，在这海上却动不动就是数月甚至数年只能见到狂暴无匹的灵气和亘古不变的水天相接。¤But after a period of time, especially after spending a lot of time searching for the Tuna vortex in the South Tu Sea, Ni Xuxin could no longer tolerate the boring Endless Sea. In Ningzhou, with his Nascent Soul cultivation level, he could even fly from Wuling City to the neighboring Hengzhou in just a few days, but on the sea, he could go for several months or even years only to encounter the unparalleled turbulent spiritual energy and the unchanging collision of water and sky.
就在你腹诽倪旭欣独特的钓鱼方式时，留意到灵舟周近的灵气变得浓郁了起来，像是在靠近一股极为强大的灵气乱流。但，似乎又有些不同。¤Just as you were silently criticizing Ni Xuxin's unique fishing method, you noticed that the spiritual aura around the spirit boat became thicker, as if approaching a powerful spiritual turbulence. However, it seemed somewhat different.
不过只要不是以肉身在灵气乱流中停留太久，横渡普通的乱流对你和倪旭欣来说易如反掌。也就没有太放在心上。而且你感到灵气的浓郁程度虽然大幅提升了却依然保持平静，更是没有威胁力。¤However, as long as you and Ni Xuxin don't stay in the chaotic spiritual energy for too long with your physical bodies, crossing normal chaotic flows will be a piece of cake for you both. So, you don't worry too much about it. Moreover, although you feel a significant increase in the density of spiritual energy, you remain calm and feel no threats.
（等等，灵气浓度上升如此之快却不像乱流中如此难以控制。难道，前方有一个庞大的灵气漩涡？甚至可能就是所谓的图南漩涡。）¤( )
根据灵气浓度认定了方向后，你驱使着灵舟加速驶去。¤According to the concentration of spiritual energy, you drive the spirit boat to accelerate and sail towards the designated direction.
随着灵舟不断前进，“哗哗”地水声也越来越大。不多时，其声势之浩大已然如天星雨下直击海面。¤As the spirit boat continued to advance, the sound of water grew louder and louder. Before long, its mighty momentum was like a starry rain falling straight down onto the sea surface.
眺目以望，但见漩涡横卧水面，隔断水天；神识相探，又似冥渊仰天巨噬，仙魔难逃。\n漩之大，覆压可止千里？\n涡之深，其势堪吞阴阳！¤Looking into the distance, you could only see a whirlpool lying across the water surface, separating the water and the sky; Exploring with your soul sense, it looked like a huge devourer in the abyss looking up to the sky, neither immortals nor demons could escape. The whirlpool was so large that it could cover a thousand miles? And the depth of the vortex was so strong that it could swallow Yin and Yang!
啊，这就是图南漩涡么，真是大啊。¤Ah, so this is the South Tu whirlpool, it's really huge.
这图南漩涡都不是元婴巅峰期修士全力一击能造成的效果，看来碎星商会让几个元婴修士带一帮金丹来此探索实在是过于鲁莽。¤This vortex in South Tu is not caused by the full force attack of a Nascent Soul Peak cultivator. It seems that the Shattered Star Merchant Guild was too reckless in sending a few Nascent Soul cultivators with a group of Golden Core cultivators to explore here.
嘿嘿，但能见识如此异象，真是不亏。反正我们是要进去的，不如就乘舟逐流，切身体会一下这漩涡的威能，如何？¤Hey hey, but it's truly worthwhile to witness such an unusual event. Anyway, we need to go inside, why not just ride the current and experience the power of this vortex firsthand? What do you think?
倪兄还是不要太放松比较好，毕竟这漩涡之下可是有等同于魔剑级别的存在，我们还是应当步步为营。¤It's better for Brother Ni to not relax too much, after all, there is an existence equivalent to a demon sword level under this vortex. We should still proceed with caution.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}说得对。¤{FirstName}, {xiongdi} is right.
你们达成一致后，便是以神通护体，借着吸力快速向漩涡的起源前进。¤Once you reach an agreement, you will use divine skill to protect yourselves and quickly move forward towards the origin of the whirlpool using suction.
倒是偶尔有倒霉的鱼被急速飞过的鱼钩直接撞裂开来。当然，也有极少数鱼会因为各种原因而幸运的保得身躯相对完整，然后被鱼钩刺穿，在倪旭欣提竿甩钩之间被带入鱼篓，为他无聊的海上之旅添上一丝单薄的乐趣。¤On rare occasions, unlucky fish are shattered by the swiftly flying fish hooks. Of course, there are very few fish that are lucky enough to keep their bodies relatively intact due to various reasons, only to be pierced by the fishing hooks and brought into the fish basket between the time when Ni Xuxin lifts his fishing rod and casts his hook, adding a bit of meager entertainment to his boring sea journey.
重回故地，你不免想起当时与倪旭欣在这里命悬一线的经历，多少仍有些心悸。¤Returning to the old place, you cannot help but remember the life-threatening experience you had with Ni Xuxin here back then, which still gives you a bit of a heart palpitation.
图南海大漩涡之下隐藏着的，是蕴含天道之力的神秘古树，而那也是化神期修士都不敢与之为敌的恐怖存在。¤Hidden beneath the great vortex of the South Tu Sea is a mysterious ancient tree that contains the power of the heavenly path, and it is a terrifying existence that even Deity Transformation cultivators dare not confront.
不知是否是你们此前的行为惊醒了沉睡多年的古树，此时图南海漩涡的恐怖更甚往日。¤I am not sure if it was your past actions that woke up the ancient tree that had been sleeping for many years, but the terror of the South Tu Sea vortex is now even worse than before.
你的脑海中浮现出成千上万条根须在海底挥舞的场景，不由的感到头皮发麻...¤Your mind is filled with scenes of thousands of root whiskers waving in the ocean floor, making you feel a tingling sensation on your scalp...
还是过段时间再来看看吧。¤Let's come back and take a look in a little while.
图南海的海面相比于当年似乎平静了不少，不知是否是那颗神秘的古树又重新陷入了沉睡之中。¤The surface of the South Tu Sea seems to have calmed down a lot compared to the past. I wonder if it's because that mysterious ancient tree has fallen back into a deep sleep.
你想下去看看？¤Do you want to go down and take a look?
多少有些好奇...这海底古树能够孕育天道果这般奇物，师兄更是称它为道的化身。¤Somewhat curious... that this ancient tree under the sea can give birth to such a rare item as the heavenly dao fruit, and senior brother even calls it the embodiment of the dao.
上次仅仅是一根根须，便让我和倪兄难以招架。但凭我如今修为，就算不是它的对手，想必也足以自保了吧？¤Last time, only a root whisker was enough to make it difficult for me and Brother Ni to defend against. But with my current cultivation, even if I am not its match, I should be able to protect myself, right?
依我看，三冥海之事，阁下还是少掺和为好。¤In my opinion, regarding the matter of the Three Dark Seas, it would be better for you to not get involved.
这阴阳瞳果然有用...¤This yin yang pupil is indeed useful...
此事事关重大，在下断不可能收手，还请阁下指点。¤This matter is of great importance. I cannot back down. I humbly request your guidance.
你本就受白帝所托来此寻找复活之术的线索，当下便直接飞至那魂体前，打算问些消息。¤You were entrusted by the White Emperor to find clues about resurrection here, so you flew directly to the soul body and planned to ask for some information.
你能听出他乃是真心劝诫，但奈何，此秘术你无论如何也要寻到。¤You can hear that he is sincerely advising you, but unfortunately, you must find this secret art no matter what.
定睛观察一番——附近的阴气都朝着不远处一座小山汇集，你便也一路寻了过去。¤Observing closely the nearby Yin Qi is gathering towards a small mountain not far away, so you followed it there.
只是？¤Just?
老头儿，这里怎么阴森森的？¤Old man, why is it so gloomy here?
听到秘术的字眼，他撇了你所背的铁剑一眼，表情略微有些变化。¤Upon hearing the term secret arts, he glanced briefly at the iron sword you carried on your back, his expression slightly changing. 
你向他作了一揖，他睁开眼睛看向你，正对上你一黑一白的双目，似乎有一些惊讶。¤You bowed to him, and he opened his eyes to look at you. His gaze met your eyes, one black and one white, and he seemed somewhat surprised.
你倒是会想，只可惜我基本无法离开这铁剑，否则就是魂飞魄散的下场。¤You do have a point, but unfortunately I can hardly leave this iron sword, otherwise it would result in my soul scattering.
越是期望，便越是绝望…¤The more you expect, the more despairing it is.
几千年前，也有一人来此寻此秘术，只不过他背的是竹筒，你背的是剑。¤A few thousand years ago, there was also someone who came here in search of this secret art, except he carried a bamboo tube on his back, while you carry a sword. 
你的语气异常坚定。他考虑了片刻，最终还是叹了口气。¤Your tone is unusually firm. He thought for a moment, but ultimately let out a sigh.
那他…最后结局如何？¤So what...was the final outcome?
这莫名其妙的回答，让你有些摸不着头脑。¤This inexplicable answer leaves you a bit puzzled.
刚离开海岛，你便催动灵气灌入双目。¤After leaving the island, you immediately activate your spiritual energy and pour it into your eyes.
言尽于此，道友好自为之。¤That's all I have to say, fellow daoist, do as you wish.
…何事？¤What's the matter?
几千年来，三冥海上所发生的事没有一件善终，几千年前如此，几千年后也一样。¤For thousands of years, nothing that has happened on the Three Dark Seas has ended well. It was like this thousands of years ago, and it will be the same thousands of years later.
唉…道友若想寻得秘术，可去阴冥海北方的阴魂岛打探一番，只是…¤Sigh... If a fellow daoist wishes to obtain secret arts, they can inquire about it on the ghost island in the northern region of the deep yin sea, but...
他没有明说，只是摇了摇头。¤He didn't say clearly, just shook his head.
一阵阴风吹过，你只觉得有什么东西在盯着你，不由自主地打了个寒颤。¤A cold wind blew by, and you suddenly felt something staring at you, causing you to shiver unconsciously.
那是一名通体青灰，呈半透明状的魂体，似乎正在打坐修炼。看这吸收天地阴气的架势，想必实力也是不俗。¤That is a soul body that is colored green and gray all over, and appears to be in a semi-transparent state while meditating and cultivating. Judging from the way it's absorbing the yin qi from the earth and heavens, it's strength is undoubtedly exceptional.
一时间，此前你只能隐隐感受到的阴气，具象成了白色的雾气，你可以清晰地看见它们的流动。¤At that moment, the Yin qi that you could only faintly feel before materialized into white mist that flowed clearly visible.
像？像什么？¤Like? Like what?
既然你能看见，那岂不是能直接与他们交流？¤Since you can see them, can't you just communicate with them directly?
道友，打扰了。在下有要事相问。¤Fellow Daoist, excuse me for interrupting. I have an important matter to inquire about.
…也罢，先去别的地方转转吧。¤Anyway, let's go to other places first.
像…太像了。¤Looks too much like.
这里…有许多依附于阴气生存的魂体。你若也是魂体，便能感应的到他们。¤Here... are many soul bodies that rely on Yin energy to survive. If you are also a soul body, you will be able to sense them.
在下对阴冥海不尚了解，故来请教一二。不知道友可曾听说过，一种能让魂体死而复生的秘术？¤I am not knowledgeable about the Deep Yin Sea, so I have come to ask for advice. Fellow Daoist, have you heard of a secret art that can revive a soul body after death?
要进入阴魂岛吗？¤Do you want to enter Ghost Island?
暂未开放¤Temporarily not available.
你仍想在此处找到那神秘声音的来源，可惜一无所获。¤Unfortunately, you were unable to find the source of the mysterious sound you were still searching for here.
要进入海底洞府么？¤Do you want to enter the undersea cave house?
一段时间后，你仍然无法参透这阵法，只得悻悻离开。¤After some time, you still couldn't comprehend this array and had to leave dejectedly.
要上岛么？¤Do you want to go to the island?
是龙族，百里兄小心！¤It's the dragon clan, be careful Baili brother!
突然间海上掀起一股巨浪，一只硕大的龙头从水中探出，一双巨眼紧紧地盯着你们。¤Suddenly, a huge wave arose on the sea, and a colossal dragon's head emerged from the water. A pair of enormous eyes glared fixedly at you.
哼，百里小贼还敢来化龙海？受死！¤Hmph, the little thief Bai Li dares to come to the Shifting Dragon Sea? Die!
也不知要在哪里才能发现龙族的踪...¤I don't know where to find the trace of the Dragon Clan.
百里兄，这里就到了龙族掌控的海域了吧。¤Baili brother, we have arrived at the sea area controlled by the dragon clan, right?
等等，莫下重手！¤Wait, don't use too much force!
人类...这股气息...莫非前些时日长老说的就是你二人？¤Is it possible that you two are the ones whom the elder mentioned some time ago with regards to this human aura?
不错，一般来说化龙海的龙族不会主动攻击来往的人类商队。但你和我在一起，情况定然不同。我们还是要小心行事。¤Not bad, generally speaking the dragon clan of the Shifting Dragon Sea will not actively attack human merchant groups passing through. But with you and me together, the situation is undoubtedly different. We still need to be careful.
要进入龙宫吗？¤Do you want to enter the Dragon Palace?
一道屏障将你阻挡在外。¤A shield blocked you from entering.
没兴趣。¤No interest.
此地人多眼杂，不如前辈随我移步附近的酒楼雅座再叙可好？我家长老已经等候您多时了。¤There are many gossipy people here, would you like to follow me to a nearby tavern to talk? My senior has been waiting for you for a long time.
这位可是{FirstName}前辈么？我家长老想邀你来府一叙，不知前辈可愿赏脸？¤Are you {FirstName} senior? My family elder wishes to invite you to our house for a meeting. Would you be willing to honor us with your presence?
好，好，好。看来你们知道的还真不少，那我便认识认识你家长老，带路吧。¤Okay, okay, okay. It seems like you know quite a bit. Then I shall introduce myself to your elder and follow your lead.
（看来我若要在南崖城获取更多关于图南漩涡的消息，难免用一些强硬手段，不如回港口等倪兄的消息好了。）¤(It seems that if I want to obtain more information about the Tuna Whirlpool in South Cliff City, I will need to use some tough methods. It might be better to wait for news from Brother Ni at the port.)
前辈，我家长老并无恶意，只是仰慕您的修为高深，想与您结识一番，交个朋友罢了。¤Senior, my family's elder has no ill intentions. We just admire your high level of cultivation and wish to make your acquaintance, and perhaps become friends.
前...前辈留步！¤Please wait, honorable seniors!
即便前辈修为通天，连图南海的漩涡都敢闯上一闯，难道前辈对如何突破化神也没有兴趣么？¤Even if senior's cultivation reaches the heavens and dares to venture into the vortexes of South Tu Sea, does senior have no interest in how to break through deity transformation?
我在南崖城并没有认识过什么家族长老，你家长老是何人，为何派你在这客栈外监视我？¤I have not met any family elders in South Cliff City. Who is your family elder and why did they send you to monitor me outside this inn? 
我家长老晋入元婴多年，又精于炼丹，对于化神之突破大有研究。前辈若能与长老相谈，一定能大有收获的！¤My elder at home has broken through to nascent soul for many years, and is also skilled in alchemy, with great research on the breakthrough of deity transformation. If seniors can have a conversation with the elder, they will surely gain a lot!
刚离开客栈，你便隐约察觉一道微弱的神识扫过。这道神识并没有什么攻击性，但显然，是有什么人盯上了你。¤As soon as you left the inn, you vaguely sensed a faint soul sense sweeping over you. This soul sense was not attacking, but obviously someone was keeping an eye on you.
来人是一名笑脸盈盈的少女，你神识扫过，发现此人不过金丹期修为，你决定...¤The person who came was a girl with a smiling face. Your soul sense swept over and found that she only had cultivation at the golden core level, you decided...
眼下诸事繁多，你自然没有什么兴趣去认识一个陌生的长老。你一脸冷漠的拒绝了她，扭头便要离开。¤Currently, there are many things going on, so naturally you are not interested in getting to know a stranger elder. You coldly rejected her and turned to leave. 
最近没有开往无尽之海的仙舟。¤Recently, there hasn't been a fairy boat heading towards the Endless Sea. 
哈哈哈，果然又有双灵根资质！¤Hahaha, it's confirmed that you have the talent for possessing double spiritual roots!
怎么样，要不要第一个上台挑战一下？¤How about it, do you want to be the first one to come up and take on the challenge?
那擂台之上的可是真正修习过竹山宗功法的外门弟子，又岂是寻常的散修能够战胜的。那些灵根资质稍差，却又能让我派破格收入门内的，自然要有自己的独到之处才行。¤Those outer disciples who have truly practiced the Bamboo Mountain Sect's techniques on the arena are not ones that ordinary independent cultivators can beat. Those with slightly lower spiritual root aptitude but can still be accepted into our sect will naturally have their own unique strengths.
剩下的人只要能通过我们擂台的比试，一样可以成为我们竹山宗的外门弟子。今天的比试就由本门的首席弟子，李师兄来为大家主持。¤The remaining people who can pass our arena's competition can also become our outer disciples of Bamboo Mountain Sect. Today's competition will be hosted by our sect's chief disciple, Senior Brother Li.
没过多久，擂台上的比试便都结束了，那些来参加比试的其他人，竟没有一个人能在擂台上获得胜利。¤Not long after, all the competitions on the arena ended, and none of the other participants were able to gain victory on the arena.
天...天灵根！¤Heaven...Heavenly Spirit Root!
唉，你这次猎魔试炼的表现实在一言难尽，有损我派颜面...此后可千万要勤加修炼。¤Ah, your performance in this demon-hunting trial is really difficult to describe. It has damaged the reputation of our sect... from now on, you must diligently cultivate.
两位{shidi}，久等了吧。¤Two {shidi}, you've waited for a long time.
竟然是百年难得一遇的天灵根，大师兄，这...¤It is unexpectedly a rare hundred-year heavenly spirit root, Senior Brother, this…
不说这些了，{shidi}刚入门，还有诸多事情要办。你们先带上我这块信物，去{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}领取门派配属的符器和道袍，然后{color=#d0380a}再回来找我{/color}。¤I won't mention these things anymore. As {shidi} has just entered the sect, there are many things to do. First, take this token and go to the {color=#d0380a}Divine Warrior Pavilion{/color} to collect your {color=#d0380a}runic weapon{/color} and sect robe. After that, {color=#d0380a}come back to find me{/color}.
台上这群人里，也就那个叫李青麟的，资质修为还算不错。嘿，剩下的人都是稀松平常的很。¤Amongst the group of people on the platform, only Li Qinglin has fairly good aptitude and cultivation. Hey, the rest of the people are just ordinary.
你走上前去，也把手放到晶石之上，和之前那次一样，晶石发出一阵明亮的光芒。¤You stepped forward and placed your hand on the crystal just like last time, and it emitted a bright light.
你一个纵身便跃上擂台¤You jumped onto the arena in one leap.
我来！¤I'm here!
竟然能见到李青麟，这可是我宁州年青一代的翘楚，年纪轻轻就突破了炼气期成功筑基。¤I was able to actually see Li Qinglin, who is the leading figure among the young generation of Ningzhou, having successfully broken through the Qi Refining Stage and achieved Foundation Building at a young age.
请！¤please.
你身前的那名修士听言便走上前去，把手放到晶石之上，晶石散发出一阵明亮的光芒。¤The cultivator in front of you walked forward upon hearing your words, placed their hand on the crystal, and it emitted a bright light.
愿下次相见，与诸位同门相称。¤I wish to see you all again next time and be considered as fellow disciples.
各位，此次擂台守擂的正是我竹山宗的外门弟子，大家可以自行上台挑战，如果获胜的话，就能成被招入门派。¤Everyone, this time the arena is being guarded by outer disciples of my Bamboo Mountain Sect. You can challenge them on stage, and if you win, you'll be able to be recruited into the sect.
广场上一阵骚动，过了片刻，你和另外一人在众人妒忌的眼神中走出了人群。¤There was a commotion on the square, and after a moment, you and another person walked out of the crowd, with jealous eyes watching you both.
也不知他是怎么杀了那么多魔物的...居然比大师兄还多，要是我也能这么厉害就好了。¤I don't know how he managed to kill so many spirit beasts... even more than Senior Brother, I wish I could be that amazing.
是啊，若能结个善缘就更好了。¤Indeed, it would be better to establish a good relationship.
不错，不错...你先去一旁候着，下一个！¤Not bad, not bad...You go wait on the side first, next!
你对木之道的感悟略微提升了。¤Your understanding of the Way of Wood has slightly improved.
你没有急着上场，而是先在场下观望了几场。¤You didn't hurry to go on stage, but instead watched a few rounds from below the stage.
还有谁想上台挑战么？¤Is there anyone else who wants to come up to challenge?
哈哈哈，{shidi}有所不知，其实已经有好些年没有人能够通过外门的擂台比试加入门派了。¤Hahaha, {shidi} you don't know, actually it has been several years since anyone has been able to enter the sect by passing the outer arena trial.
果然是天灵根，我派已有数百年没有招收到如此资质的弟子了...¤Indeed, it is the heavenly spirit root. Our sect has not recruited disciples with such aptitude for several hundred years...
凡是天灵根和双灵根资质道友，请先站到我身边来。¤Fellow cultivators with either a heavenly spirit root or a double spirit root aptitude, please stand by my side.
两位{shidi}，你们便不必参加之后的擂台比试了，现在这里等候片刻，等比试结束，我再来找你们。¤To the two {shidi}, you do not need to participate in the upcoming arena competition. Please wait here for a moment. After the competition ends, I will come find you.
在下先来讨教一二！¤I'd like to inquire and learn from you.
师弟，剩下的入门比试便交给你来主持了，我先带这位小{shidi}去面见掌门师尊。¤Junior brother, I will leave the remaining entry-level competition to you to preside over. I will take this little {shidi} to meet the master.
（老头儿，这守擂的人厉不厉害？）¤(Old man, is this defender powerful?)
广场上一阵骚动，过了片刻，有两人在众人妒忌的眼神中走出了人群。¤On the square, there was a commotion and after a while, two people walked out of the crowd under the envious eyes of the bystanders.
你走上前去，手刚一接触晶石，晶石便散发出刺眼的白光，比之前那人更亮上数倍。见此情景，台上台下顿时鸦雀无声。¤You step forward and as soon as your hand touches the crystal stone, it emits a piercing white light, several times brighter than the person before. Seeing this scene, there is suddenly silence in the crowd.
那名竹山宗的守擂弟子，一身木系功法使得颇为熟练，前几名挑战者都被他的法术{color=#d0380a}缠绕{/color}住，动弹不得，很快便败下阵来。¤The challenger of the Bamboo Mountain Sect, skilled in wood technique, had successfully tangled the spell around the first few challengers leaving them immobilized and defeated.
嗯，不错...你们两个待会儿跟着那边的师兄去宗门大殿，待长老们亲自确认过你们的灵根资质，你们就可以直接成为我派的内门弟子了。¤Okay, good... the two of you will follow that senior brother to the great hall of the clan later. After the elders personally confirm your spiritual root aptitude, you can directly become our sect's inner disciples.
诸位道友，今天是我们竹山宗招收入门弟子的第五天，诸位既然来到了这里，请务必听清在下所讲的每一句话，这将直接关系到诸位能否进入本门。¤Fellow Daoists, today is the fifth day of our Bamboo Mountain Sect's recruitment of new disciples. Since you have come here, please make sure to listen carefully to every word I say, as this will directly determine whether or not you can enter our sect.
你先来，把手放在晶石上，不要动。¤Come forward first, place your hand on the crystal stone, and don't move.
噗嗤，那个猎魔试炼杀了{$TempValue}只魔的{shidi}回来了。¤Ha ha, that demon-hunting trial killed {$TempValue} demons and only {shidi} returned.
(倪兄貌似在此处打听，为了提高效率我还是去其他地方吧。）¤(Brother Ni seems to be asking here. In order to improve efficiency, I'll go somewhere else.)
还不如跟我一样四处游历，以寻宝为乐...¤Better off traveling with me and enjoying treasure hunting...
我在打听时也是多次听闻漩涡非常危险。¤When I asked around, I heard many times that the vortex is very dangerous.
不多时，倪旭欣也是来到约定的地点。¤Not long after, Ni Xuxin also arrived at the agreed location.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}说笑了，我不过是跑了一趟腿而已，哈哈哈。¤{FirstName} and {xiongdi} joked around, I just ran an errand for them, hahaha.
不过，{FirstName}{xiongdi}储物袋中可有带灵石？我平时也没有身边带大量灵石的习惯，身上有的也不够交换情报。¤However, {FirstName}{xiongdi}, do you have any spirit stones in your storage pouch? I don't usually carry a large amount of spirit stones with me, and the ones I have are not enough for exchanging information.
你独自嗟叹间，倪旭欣已然携图南漩涡情报归来。¤While you were sighing alone, Ni Xuxin has already returned with the information about the South Tu vortex.
啊？啊，我刚去了趟天极殿。据他们所说，数百年前曾有许多修士自发前往图南漩涡，或探访遗迹，或寻求机缘，但无一例外失去音讯，料想应该是尽皆陨落其中。¤Huh? Ah, I just went to Tianji Temple. According to them, hundreds of years ago, many cultivators voluntarily went to the South Tu Whirlpool to explore relics or seek opportunities, but without exception, they all lost contact. It is expected that they all perished in it.
之后三大岛也分别召集麾下修士前往漩涡探索。其中声势最为浩大的碎星商会甚至出动了多位元婴期修士，但结果依旧是无人归来，更不用说有所收获了。¤Afterwards, the three major islands also summoned their cultivators to explore the whirlpool. Among them, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild, with the most powerful momentum, even dispatched multiple nascent soul stage cultivators. However, the result was still that no one returned, let alone any gains.
这次真没了？¤Is this really over?
你回到港口。但没有见到倪旭欣，估摸着只是打听漩涡的消息应该也花不了太多时间，便决定闭目养神等上他一会。¤You returned to the port. But you didn't see Ni Xuxin. You guessed that it wouldn't take too much time for him to inquire about the vortex, so you decided to close your eyes and rest while waiting for him.
你想着自己身上的诛仙剑小声补了一句，但是倪旭欣并没有太在意¤You quietly added something about the Immortal Sword on your body, but Ni Xuxin didn't pay too much attention.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}若无其他消息相告，那，我们便出发去图南海？¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, if there are no other news to report, then shall we set off to the South Tu Sea?
倪旭欣似乎是还在你一连串的消息打击中未反应过来，显然是没想到在你的努力下，刚到南崖城便搜集到了如此之多的信息。¤Ni Xuxin seems to still be numb from the series of messages you've sent, apparently not expecting that you would be able to gather so much information just after arriving at South Cliff City.
那，这次的50万灵石，估计也...¤That, this time's 500,000 spirit stones, estimated to be...
哈哈哈，有{FirstName}{xiongdi}在看来我只用做好进漩涡的准备就是了，其他的都可以放心交给{xiongdi}。不如我们这就出发去...¤Ha ha ha, with {FirstName}{xiongdi} here, all I need to do is prepare to enter the vortex and leave the rest to {xiongdi}. Let's set off to...
好，没有其他消息了。¤Okay, there is no other news.
我刚在碎星商会打听到图南漩涡的位置便是在图南海{color=#d0380a}东南部{/color}。¤I just inquired at the Shattered Star Merchant Guild and found out that the location of the South Tu Whirlpool is in the southeastern part of the South Tu Sea.
商会开价50万灵石，但我此次出来只带了5万灵石，一路上又花了些，如今不足两万灵石了，嘿嘿嘿。¤The trading guild offered 500,000 spirit stones, but I only brought 50,000 spirit stones with me on this trip. I also spent some along the way, so now I only have less than 20,000 spirit stones left. Hehehe.
我倒是得知碎星商会对于那个漩涡知道很多，只是...¤I have learned that the Shattered Star Merchant Guild knows a lot about that whirlpool, but...
恍惚间，你想起百年前刚遇见这阔少并从沂山派救下他时，好像还曾许诺将自己身上的法宝都送你，但...¤Vaguely, you remember that when you first met this young master and saved him from the Mt. Yi Sect a hundred years ago, it seems that you once promised to give him all the artifacts on your body, but...
好，好啊，本来只是想带{FirstName}{xiongdi}去找师祖，没想到反倒什么都要靠{xiongdi}了，哈哈，哈哈。¤Great, that's great. Originally, I just wanted to bring {FirstName} and {xiongdi} to find the master, but unexpectedly, I have to rely on {xiongdi} for everything now, haha, haha.
不愧是{FirstName}{xiongdi}，实力强大不说，探访情报还如手到擒来。出海前拉上你真是没错哈哈哈。¤You are truly worthy of being {FirstName}{xiongdi}. Not only do you possess immense strength, but gathering intel is also effortless for you. It was a wise decision to bring you along for this voyage, haha.
那我们这就出发去图南海吧。¤Then let's set off to the South Tu Sea.
倪兄可有收获？¤Did Brother Ni gain anything?
不过也正是如此凶险，才让我更加相信这魔剑确实在漩涡中。¤However, it is precisely because of its danger that makes me believe even more that the demon sword is indeed in the vortex.
你寻思着自己不方便出现在碎星商会，若想再说些什么，也只能以神识传音。只是以倪旭欣的速度，此时怕是已在商会内部，神识传音多半会被阵法挡住，也只能等倪旭欣回来再说了。¤You are thinking that it is inconvenient for you to appear in the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. If you want to say anything, you can only use your soul sense to transmit your message. However, with Nie Xuxin's speed, he may already be inside the guild, and your soul sense transmission will most likely be blocked by the array. You can only wait for Nie Xuxin to return before speaking further.
这一路紧赶慢赶，总算是到南崖城了啊，海上真是太无聊了。¤After rushing and dragging along all the way, we have finally arrived at South Cliff City. The sea is really boring.
倪兄别急，我...¤Brother Ni, don't worry, I...
哈哈哈，还是倪兄厉害。¤Hahaha, Nie Xiong is still amazing.
看来我们还得去其他地方打听一番这漩涡的位置了，不然偌大一个图南海，还不知要找到何时。¤It seems that we still have to inquire about the location of this vortex in other places, otherwise in such a vast South Tu Sea, we don't know when we will be able to find it.
至于其他信息，天极殿也只是推说现今图南漩涡被列为禁地，相关信息也是佚失。¤Regarding other information, Tianji Temple only speculates that the current South Tu vortex is listed as a forbidden area, and related information is also lost.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}真是消息灵通，我这便去商会打听一番。¤{FirstName}, my {xiongdi}, you really are well-informed. I shall investigate at the merchant's guild immediately.
我现在也没有50万灵石，待我想想办法。¤I don't have 500,000 spirit stones right now. Let me think of a solution.
你回到码头，倪旭欣正在近旁等待，但见他一副沉思的样子，也不知在想什么。¤You return to the pier and Ni Xuxin is waiting nearby. He has a pensive look on his face, but it's unclear what he's thinking about.
啊不对，这次不是来闲聊的，{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我们还是分头去打听一下漩涡或其他相关危险地点的情报吧。¤Oh wait, I'm not here to chat this time, {FirstName}{xiongdi}. Let's split up and gather information on the whirlpool or other related dangerous areas.
或至少是同阶异宝...¤Or at least it is a treasure of the same level but different kind...
是吧，哈哈哈。所以我一直搞不懂百里家那个好斗猿人为啥喜欢往海上跑。¤Right, haha. So I never understood why the belligerent ape from the Baili family enjoyed running towards the sea.
正当你准备说自己不方便前往碎星商会打听时，倪旭欣打断了你。¤As you were about to say that you're not convenient to go to Shattered Star Merchant Guild to inquire, Ni Xuxin interrupted you.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}的意思是？¤What does {FirstName}{xiongdi} mean?
你将碎星商会幸存者及之后的事一一向倪旭欣说明。然后你们就幸存者浑浑噩噩的状态做出简单的讨论，不出意料的，倪旭欣更加坚信漩涡中有一把魔剑，而这幸存者就是煞气入体才会如此。只是不知为何不似宁州古迹中人一般，会四处伤人。¤You explain to Ni Xuxin one by one about the survivors of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild and what happened afterwards. Then you have a simple discussion about the survivors' confused state, but it's not surprising that Ni Xuxin becomes even more convinced that there is a demon sword in the vortex, and that the survivors are like this because of baleful qi entering their bodies. However, it's unclear why they don't harm others like the people in the ancient ruins of Ningzhou.
想什么呢，准备出发了。¤What are you thinking? We are ready to depart.
倪兄可有打听到漩涡的位置？¤Brother Ni, have you inquired about the location of the vortex?
你花了一点时间将知晓碎星商会幸存者及之后与之战斗时了解到的海底幻境一事向倪旭欣说明清楚。不出意料的，倪旭欣更加坚信漩涡中有一把魔剑，而这幸存者就是煞气入体才会如此。只是不知为何不似宁州古迹中人一般，会四处伤人。¤You spent some time explaining to Ni Xuxin about the survivors of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild and the underwater illusionary realm that you learned about during your subsequent battles. As expected, Ni Xuxin became even more convinced that there is a demon sword within the vortex, and that the survivor must have been affected by baleful qi for this to happen. However, it is unclear why they have not been harming others like the people in the Ning Province ancient ruins.
说到准备，碎星商会还告诉我了一些其他消息。¤Speaking of preparations, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild also told me some other news.
哈哈哈，我可没说只打听到图南漩涡有多危险。¤Ha ha ha, I never said I only inquired about how dangerous the South Tu Whirlpool is.
五十万灵石...不愧是，倪少啊，哈，哈，哈。¤Five hundred thousand spirit stones...Truly deserving of being Ni Shao, haha, haha, haha.
（只是要灵石么，倒还好。若是真到了打上门去要消息的地步，浪费时间不说，若是他们供奉齐出被缠上了还挺麻烦。）¤(Just for spirit stones, it's okay. If it really comes to the point of knocking on the door for information, not only is it a waste of time, but if their guest elders are all caught up, it will be quite troublesome.)
按倪兄的描述，这漩涡也算不上太难见，也许{color=#d0380a}客栈{/color}中会有人知道相关的消息，考虑此处着手吧。¤According to Brother Ni's description, this vortex is not too hard to find, perhaps someone in the inn knows relevant information, let's focus on this area. 
不愧是{FirstName}{xiongdi}，那我们接下来只要再打听清楚漩涡出现的规律就好了，希望不要等太久。¤Not disappointing, {FirstName}{xiongdi}. All we need to do now is find out the pattern of the appearance of the whirlpool and hopefully it won't take too long.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，图南漩涡便是在图南海{color=#d0380a}东南部{/color}，商会的人说从过往的规律算来，近期应该会现世，我们这便出发吧。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, the Tunan Vortex is located in the {color=#d0380a}southeastern{/color} part of the South Tu Sea. The members of the guild say that based on past patterns, it should appear soon. Let's set off now.
啊不对，现在不是说这些的时候。好不容易到了南崖城，{FirstName}{xiongdi}我们还是分头去打听一下漩涡或者相关危险地点的情报吧。¤Ah, wait, this isn't the time to discuss this. Since we've finally arrived at South Cliff City, let's split up and gather information about the vortex or other dangerous areas, okay {FirstName} {xiongdi}?
正当你打算叮嘱倪旭欣一番时，他已是踏上飞剑往城内方向疾驰而去，只留下你在原地发愣。¤Just as you were about to give some advice to Ni Xuxin, he was already riding on a flying sword and speeding towards the city, leaving you standing there in a daze.
倪兄莫急。这出现规律嘛，碎星商会的人也说了，图南漩涡近期便是会现世。¤Brother Ni, don't worry. This is a recurring pattern, as the members of Shattered Star Merchant Guild have also mentioned that the South Tu Whirlpool will appear soon.
我可不是那帮整天只会闭关论道的老顽固。他们睁眼只会论道，闭眼就是苦修，结果一晃几百年过去了，也没见得飞升。¤I am not one of those stubborn old folks who only know how to cultivate and debate all day long. They only talk about the way while awake, and practice in seclusion while asleep. After a few hundred years, they still haven't ascended.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，碎星商会果然掌握了图南漩涡的情报，而且只要给够灵石就可以卖给我们！¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild really does have the information on the South Tu whirlpool, and they can sell it to us as long as we provide enough spirit stones!
我刚去了一趟天极殿，本以为在那可以轻易打听到相关消息，没想听到的全是漩涡怎么怎么危险...至于，位置，或者其他相关的内容，什么都没问到...¤I recently went to Tianji Temple, expecting to easily gather related news, but all I heard about were the dangers of the whirlpool... I didn't ask about the location or any other related content.
好说，好说。不知倪兄跟商会商量好的价格是多少？¤Okay, okay. I don't know what price Brother Ni has discussed with the Commerce Guild.
上灵舟吧，据碎星商会所言，图南漩涡近期便要重新现世了，耽误了时间可要赶不上了。¤Get on the Spirit Boat. According to the Shattered Star Merchant Guild, the Southern Tornado Vortex will reappear soon, and if we waste time, we might not catch up.
这曾经的翘家阔少并没有多想你话语间的深意，拿了灵石就急忙御剑往碎星商会去了。只留你一人在原地心疼自己的灵石。¤The once arrogant rich young man did not think much of the deeper meaning in your words, and quickly took the spirit stones and flew on his sword towards the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. Leaving you alone, mourning for your precious spirit stones.
（看你去了这么久，我还以为有什么收获呢。）¤(Seeing that you've been gone for so long, I thought you would have gained something.)
除此之外，我天机阁有幸获得了一些涵虚仙府的消息，届时也会一并奉上。¤Furthermore, my Heavenly Machine has had the fortune of gaining some information regarding the Huanxu Palace, which will also be shared at that time.
诸位不用怀疑在下的用意。只是考虑到涵虚此人乖僻好战，当初也是连败多位公孙家修士。甚至到云汐城布阵挑衅，以至公孙家老祖当年不得不出手将之镇压。在下由此认为其洞府恐怕也是凶险异常。¤You don't need to doubt my intentions. It's just that considering Han Xu's eccentricity and love for battles, he had previously defeated many Gongsun family cultivators. He even set up a formation to provoke them in Yun Shi City, to the point where the Gongsun family's ancestor had to suppress him. Therefore, I believe that his cave is probably extremely dangerous.
你看到其他人再次交头接耳，心中不免也对涵虚仙人的洞府多了几分遐想。但天机阁执事接下来的话语，让整个会场瞬间归于安静。¤You see others whispering again and can't help but have a few more thoughts about Hanxu Immortal's cave. But the words of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion deacon that followed immediately made the entire venue quiet down in an instant.
诸位还请安静。虽然部分道友已经知道涵虚仙人的威名，但还请容许我给其他道友介绍一下此次拍卖物品的正主。¤Everyone please quiet down. Although some fellow daoists may already know of the renown of Immortal Hanxu, please allow me to introduce the main item for this auction to other fellow daoists.
是不是涵虚仙府的玉佩还不好说，我可不敢在这种地方把玉佩拿出来验证一番。¤It's hard to say whether the jade pendant is from Huanxu Palace or not. I don't dare to take it out and verify it in this kind of place.
场内变得嘈杂了起来，只是各位修士都在身边设下了禁制，听不太清他们在讨论些什么。¤The scene became lively, but all the cultivators had set up barriers around themselves so it was hard to hear what they were discussing.
所以诸位若是能在其洞府内寻觅到涵虚仙人的秘宝，甚至获得其传承，其中好处自不用在下多说。¤Therefore, if you are able to search for the treasures of the Immortal Hanxu within their cave, or even gain their inheritance, the benefits need not be explained any further.
名号挺响亮，但老夫可不记得千年前的剑修有这号人物。¤The name sounds impressive, but this old man doesn't remember such a person in the ranks of sword cultivators from a thousand years ago.
没错，正是他！¤Correct, it's him!
关于涵虚仙府，在下有一言，请诸位一听。¤Regarding Huanxu Palace, I have a few words. Please listen carefully.
正当大家准备退场时。一个意料之外的声音传入在场各位的耳中。¤Right as everyone was preparing to leave, an unexpected voice resounded in the ears of those present.
老头子你连自己的功法都忘了，不记得有这号人物也很正常。¤Old man, forgetting even your own technique is normal, so it's understandable that you don't remember this person.
此次拍卖的物品是一枚灵石玉佩，其材质不过是稍好的灵石而已，主要价值嘛，还是其上所布的精妙阵法。¤The item being auctioned this time is a spiritual stone jade pendant, made from a slightly better quality spiritual stone. Its main value lies in the exquisite array that is set upon it.
随着你成功拍下涵虚玉佩，这件引起各大势力豪掷灵石的物事，虽然不知道还会在宁州引起什么波澜，但至少现在也算是归处已定。¤As you successfully bid for the Huanxu Jade Pendant, this item that has caused various powers to spend a huge amount of spirit stones, although it is not known what kind of waves it will cause in Ningzhou, at least for now it has found its home.
若是各大势力联手进入，共同破解仙府阵法，而后合理分配其中收获，避免内斗的损失，才是切实壮大我正派之实力。¤If all major forces work together to enter and collectively break the immortal mansion array, and then reasonably distribute the gains to avoid losses from internal strife, that is the only way to truly strengthen the power of our righteous faction. 
公孙季说完顿了顿，像是在等别人打断他。但场中修士多是保持沉默，甚至有的修士抱着掺和其中机缘的想法，迫不及待的点点头。¤After Gongsun Ji finished speaking, he paused as if waiting for someone to interrupt him. However, most of the cultivators present remained silent, with some even eagerly nodding as they thought about seizing the chance to get involved.
看来你这{xiaozi}与涵虚仙人的缘分不浅，竟能接连获得涵虚仙府玉佩的消息。¤It seems that you, {xiaozi}, have a deep connection with Immortal Huanxu, as you have been gaining news about the jade pendant of Huanxu Palace one after another.
见笑了，公孙家虽在多年前因涵虚丢尽脸面，但如今魔道妖人蠢蠢欲动，还是以宁州正道发展为先，置私情于后。况且，被涵虚找上门的也不止公孙一家，只是在下认为不宜提起罢了。¤Sorry to have embarrassed you. Although the Gongsun family lost face many years ago due to Han Xu, they are still focused on the development of the righteous path in Ningzhou, putting personal feelings aside due to the current rise of demonic and demonic cultivators. Moreover, it's not just the Gongsun family who have been sought out by Han Xu, but it's not appropriate for me to bring it up.
公孙季闻言脸色转阴，但很快就隐藏好自己的情绪。也没有反驳，只是假笑着拱了拱手，表示认同。¤Gongsun Ji's face darkened upon hearing the words, but quickly hid her emotions. She did not refute, only smiled politely and gestured agreement.
原本嘈杂的人流，在公孙季的言语下猛地安静起来。显然都对他要说的话兴趣不浅。¤The originally noisy crowd suddenly quieted down under Gongsun Ji's words. It's obvious that they are quite interested in what he has to say.
相信大家都是为了仙府钥匙而来的，但还请诸位稍安勿躁，待在下介绍一番。¤I believe everyone has come for the Immortal Mansion key, but please be patient and wait for me to introduce it first.
{vpunch=10,0.5}（台下某人）可是那个号称剑阵双绝，同阶无敌的涵虚仙人？¤{vpunch=10,0.5} (Someone in the audience) But isn't that the Immortal Hanxu who is known for his invincibility at the same level and his mastery of the Sword Array?
言归正传，在下最近探访得涵虚仙府便是在云汐城左近，若有诸位有意结队前往探访，在下便在云汐城恭候了。¤To get to the point, I recently visited Huanxu Palace, which is located near Yun Shi City. If any of you are interested in visiting together, I will be waiting in Yun Shi City.
近年来阵法大能并不多见，所以天机阁大胆推测，该拍品的主人是千年前的元婴散修涵虚仙人。¤In recent years, powerful arrays have not been seen much, so the Heavenly Machine Pavilion boldly speculates that the owner of this auction item is Hanxu Immortal, a nascent soul cultivator from a thousand years ago.
我宣布，此次拍卖正式开始！低价3万灵石，每次加价不得低于1000灵石！¤I declare that the auction has officially begun! Starting price is 30,000 spirit stones, and each bid must not be less than 1,000 spirit stones!
魏无极被气得直吹胡子，然后消失在铁剑中，不再理会你。¤Wei Wuji was so angry that he blew his beard straight, then disappeared into the iron sword, ignoring you again.
在下游历时曾获得一些关于涵虚仙人的消息，值此拍卖之际，愿与在场正派道友分享一二。¤During my travels, I have obtained some information about Hanxu Immortal. At this auction, I would like to share some details with the righteous fellow daoists present.
只是没想到公孙兄竟会主动提起，我可听说那一战是公孙家多位长老轮番上阵，结果还被打得灰头土脸。更好笑的是几位长老联手都没突破涵虚仙人的阵法，只得请出老祖破阵，也不知是真是假。¤Only did not expect that Brother Gongsun would take the initiative to mention it. I heard that in that battle many elders of the Gongsun family took turns to fight, but still ended up getting beaten badly. What's even more laughable is that even when several elders teamed up, they couldn't break through the array set by Immortal Hanxu. They had to ask the ancestor to break the array, but it's uncertain whether it's true or false.
一时间拍卖场加价声此起彼伏，你无意参与其中，选择在场外静候...¤At the auction house, the sounds of bidding rose and fell continuously. You had no intention of participating and chose to wait outside quietly...
（这公孙季说的堂而皇之，虽不知打的什么算盘。倒也方便了我探访涵虚仙府之事。）¤(This Gongsun Ji speaks with great authority, although I don't know what her intentions are. It does make it easier for me to investigate the matter regarding Huanxu Palace.)
（该死，这公孙季说的堂而皇之，也不知打得什么算盘。看来我单独探访涵虚仙府的想法多半是没戏了。）¤(Damn it, Gongsun Ji spoke as if nothing was wrong. I wonder what schemes she has in mind. It seems like my plan to visit Huanxu Palace alone might not work out.)
随着拍卖师锤落音定，这件引起各大势力豪掷灵石的玉佩，虽然不知道还会在宁州引起什么波澜，但至少现在也算是归处已定。¤With the sound of the auctioneers hammer falling, this jade pendant that caused major forces to fiercely bid with spirit stones, although I don't know what kind of waves it will cause in Ningzhou, at least for now it has found a home.
一时间拍卖场加价声此起彼伏，你也不甘寂寞的加入其中。¤At once, the sound of price increases echoed through the auction house, and you unwillingly joined in.
涵虚仙人乃千年前突现的绝世剑修，其出身、师承不详，但仅凭一人，一剑，一阵，纵横宁州数百年。据说当时甚至以元婴修为与化神大能大战数十回合，最后即便是因境界差距而后力不济，也不过重伤逃走，并未陨落在大能手下。¤The immortal Hanxu was an unparalleled sword cultivator who emerged a thousand years ago. His background and lineage are unknown, but with just one person, one sword, and one formation, he roamed the region of Ningzhou for hundreds of years. It is said that at that time, he even fought dozens of rounds against powerful beings who had undergone deity transformation and reached nascent soul cultivation level. Although he was eventually injured and had to flee due to the gap in their realms, he did not fall under the hands of the powerful beings.
经天机阁长老鉴定，该拍品上所布的阵法不但能感应识别其他的玉佩，还有自我防御功能，纵使尽元婴期巅峰修士之力也难以凭蛮力破除。¤According to the appraisal of the elder from Heavenly Secrets Pavilion, it has been identified that the array deployed on the auction item not only has the ability to sense and recognize other jade pendants, but also has a self-defense function. Even the full power of a peak Nascent Soul cultivator would find it difficult to brute force through this defense.
我刚入门的时候，曾听师祖提到过涵虚仙人破尽公孙家阵法，然后摆阵求战一事。¤When I first entered the door, my teacher mentioned that the Immortal Hanxu had broken the Gongsun family's array, and then set up his own formation to seek battle.
待与会者都坐定后，拍卖师走上台来。其身后的杂役推着一个蒙着红布的小车，你估摸着红布下就是这次拍卖会的主角了。¤After the attendees were all seated, the auctioneer stepped onto the stage. Behind him, the attendants were pushing a small cart covered in red cloth, which you guessed was the hero of this auction underneath.
确实...也不知在这海上是否能发现什么端倪。¤Indeed...I don't know if we can find any clues on the sea.
不过我既已穿过碎星海域来到岛上，却未发生什么意外，想来家族族训必然有所纰漏。¤However, I have already passed through the Shattered Star Sea to arrive on the island, yet nothing unexpected happened. It seems that there must have been some mistakes in the family's training.
既然如此，我们便先在这碎星岛上搜罗一番，看看能否发现什么线索。¤In that case, let us first search for clues on Shattered Star Island and see if we can find anything.
这码头人声鼎沸，往来之人十之八九皆为商贩，想来此地便是碎星岛了。¤The pier is bustling with people, almost all of whom are merchants. This must be Shattered Star Island.
先前偷偷从圣坛离开恐怕已经引起他们的注意，我还是不要明目张胆地出现在这里了...¤Leaving the sacred altar secretly earlier may have already attracted their attention. It's better for me not to blatantly appear here.
好不容易才潜入进岛，这里人多眼杂，很可能被认出来，我...¤I finally managed to sneak into the island, but there are many people here and it's possible that I may be recognized. I... 
哈哈，瞌睡送枕头，老子正好缺点灵石花！¤Haha, falling asleep with a pillow, I just happen to be short on spirit stones!
你就是岛主下令追捕的{FirstName}{LastName}修士？¤Are you the cultivator {FirstName}{LastName} who the island master ordered to be hunted down?
你一踏进店里，就察觉到许多异样的关注目光。¤Upon stepping into the store, you immediately noticed many peculiar gazes.
周围的修士见你进店，纷纷低下头去，你偶尔听见角落传来的窃窃私语。¤As the cultivators around the shop see you enter, they all lower their heads and you occasionally hear whispers coming from the corners.
管事有令，格杀勿论！¤execute without mercy!
我的这艘旋龟舟是家父花重金雇人打造的，船身用元婴期海兽旋龟之壳所炼制，坚硬无比。我们便乘这艘灵舟出发吧。¤My whirling turtle boat was crafted by my father at great expense, using the shell of a sea beast in the nascent soul stage, making the hull incredibly strong. Let us set off on this spirit boat then.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}今日气色不错，可准备好共同出海了？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, your complexion looks good today. Are you ready to set sail together?
你刚到码头，便远远地看见一个身影伫立在岸边，眺望着远处波涛汹涌的无尽之海，不知在想些什么。¤You just arrived at the pier, and from afar you saw a figure standing on the shore, gazing at the endless sea with rough waves in the distance, not knowing what they were thinking.
这无尽之海上的灵气乱流飘忽不定，没有一艘好船可不行。¤The spiritual energy in the endless sea is erratic and constantly changing, and having a good ship is crucial.
在你与百里奇迅猛的攻势下，老者明显不敌。¤Under your and Baili Qi's fierce attack, the old man was clearly no match.
宅子里头...像是有什么奇怪的阵法，大抵和血脉有关。¤Inside the house...there seems to be some strange array related to bloodlines.
你见状飞身上前，同百里奇一起向神秘老者使出了神通。¤You saw the situation and flew forward, using divine skills with Baili Qi to attack the mysterious old man.
那此番我们前去化龙海域探听虚实，定要小心提防。¤This time, when we go to investigate the truth in the Shifting Dragon Sea area, we must be careful and vigilant.
百里兄无需自责，我看没准是那龙族胡搅蛮缠，害得百里族人一路迁徙！¤Brother Baili, there is no need for self-blame. I think it's possible that the Dragon Clan caused trouble and forced the Baili Clan to migrate all the way here.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}言重了，碎星岛也非安全之地，未免夜长梦多。把这两瓶驱妖液带上，我们即日便启程前往化龙海域吧！¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, you're being too serious. Shattered Star Island is not a safe place, and it's better to be safe than sorry. Let's bring these two bottles of Fey Repulsion Draught and set off for the Shifting Dragon Sea without delay!
听闻化龙海域内龙族居多，而这些龙族也并非都是水灵根，甚至还有天赋上乘的变异灵根。¤I have heard that the majority of the Dragon Clan resides within the Shifting Dragon Sea, and not all of them possess water spiritual roots. There are even those with mutated spiritual roots of superior talent.
他说完这句话，竟化作一条五爪金龙飞向天际，转瞬间便失去了影踪。¤After he finished speaking, he unexpectedly transformed into a five-clawed metal dragon and flew towards the sky, disappearing without a trace in the blink of an eye.
不，这件事本就与{FirstName}{xiongdi}无关，化龙海域凶险异常，我怎好意思再让{xiongdi}涉险！¤No, this matter has nothing to do with {FirstName} {xiongdi}. The Shifting Dragon Sea is extremely dangerous, how can I make {xiongdi} take risks again?
这栋宅子似乎已经很久没人居住了，但从它庞大的规模来看从前居住在这里的人家一定非富即贵。¤This house seems to have been uninhabited for a long time, but judging from its immense size, the family that used to live here must have been either rich or noble.
这灵力波动...看样子是有人触发了阵法。¤This spiritual energy fluctuation... it seems someone has triggered the array.
你有些好奇地跃上大门朝内看去，竟发现了一个熟悉的身影。¤You curiously leapt onto the gate and looked inside, and unexpectedly discovered a familiar figure.
怎么说，老头？¤How do you say it, old man?
难道我百里家竟与龙族有什么瓜葛？¤Does it mean that there is some sort of connection between my Baili family and the Dragon clan?
龙族首领覆海大圣便是雷灵根，实力十分强大，可以元婴巅峰修为匹敌化神期修士。¤The leader of the dragon clan, Overwhelming Sea Saint, is also a Thunder Spirit with extremely powerful abilities. He can rival Deity Transformation cultivators with his Nascent Soul peak cultivation level.
我一直指摘海兽其心可诛，无端进攻广陵城，没想到罪魁祸首居然正是我们......¤I have been accusing the Sea Beast of being treacherous and attacking Guangling City without cause, but I never thought that the true culprit would be us...
我竟从未听过族中长辈说起此事！我自儿时便居于广陵城，还以为百里一族是土生土长的宁州人士...¤I have never heard any of the elders in my clan mention this matter! I have lived in Guangling City since I was a child, and I always thought that the Baili clan were natives of Ningzhou...
这宅子看起来有些古怪。¤This house looks a bit strange.
百十招过后，百里奇逐渐落于下风。那神秘老者见此乘胜追击，几招便将百里奇败于掌下。¤After a hundred moves, Baili Qi gradually fell behind. The mysterious old man took advantage of this and pursued him. With a few moves, he defeated Baili Qi under his palm.
似乎特定血脉的人进入这个宅子阵法便会触发，或许是用来护宅吧。¤It seems that people with certain bloodline would trigger this house's formation upon entering, perhaps used for protecting the house.
转过热闹喧嚣的坊市，一条寂静的小巷吸引了你的注意。你穿过小巷，发现了一幢稍显破旧的宅子。¤After passing through the bustling marketplace, a quiet alley caught your attention. You walked through the alley and spotted a slightly run-down house. Note
没想到百里家的人居然还有胆子跑到祖宅这里，真当我们龙族是可欺之辈！¤I didn't expect people from the Baili family to have the audacity to come to our ancestral home. Do they really think that the dragon clan is weak and can be bullied? 
你并不打算参与此事，与百里奇应酬几句后便离开了百里祖宅。¤You don't plan to participate in this matter, so after exchanging a few words with Baili Qi, you left the Baili ancestral mansion.
你没有贸然出手，而是选择等待。百里奇与神秘老者二人战到一处，两人所用招式竟有八分相似。¤You did not act recklessly but chose to wait. Baili Qi and the mysterious old man fought each other, and their moves were surprisingly similar.
两人愈战愈烈，你在一旁只觉招式虽然相似，但老者所用神通明显要比百里奇的精妙许多。¤As the two fought harder, you could only feel that although their moves were similar, the divine skills used by the old man were clearly more brilliant than those of Baili Qi.
然而老者来势汹汹，似乎与百里家有着什么不为人知的龃龉。¤However, the old man came with a fierce momentum, seemingly having some unknown feud with the Baili family. 
你飞身上前，同百里奇一起向神秘老者使出了神通。¤You flew forward and together with Baili Qi, used divine skills against the mysterious old man.
据海图所示，似乎碎星海域附近有片海域名为化龙，其中海兽多为龙族。¤According to the sea map, it seems that there is a sea area near the Shattered Star Sea called Hualong, where sea beasts are mostly of the dragon clan.
电光火石间百里奇匆忙运起功法，堪堪接住了那一掌。你决定...¤Between the electric light and flint, Baili Qi hastily used his technique and managed to barely catch that palm. You decide...
既然如此我还是不要贸然进入此地了...¤Since that's the case, I think I won't enter this place rashly...
哼，别以为这就算了。¤Hmph, don't think this is over.
龙族...方才你我与他交手时，我分明感觉自己的功法与他本是同源。¤Dragon Clan... When we just fought against each other, I clearly felt that my technique and his were of the same origin.
百里兄！¤Brother Baili!
似是听见了你的低呼，百里奇朝你的方向看来。你刚要说些什么，一阵强劲的掌风擦过你身侧向宅内的百里奇袭去。¤It seems like Baili Qi heard your whisper, and he turned towards your direction. You were about to say something when a strong gust of palm wind brushed past you and attacked Baili Qi inside the house.
一股巨大的灵力波动从宅子中心扩散开，恐怕整个碎星岛都能感受到如此剧烈的动荡。¤A huge spiritual energy wave spread out from the center of the house, perhaps the entire Shattered Star Island could feel such intense turbulence.
正当你打算离开这里时，宅邸内部突然生出异变。¤As you were about to leave, the mansion suddenly underwent a strange transformation.
阵法如何与血脉有关？¤How are arrays related to bloodlines?
你把先前打听到的消息转述给百里奇。¤You pass along the information you previously inquired about to Baili Qi.
百里小贼纳命来！¤Baili's little thief, surrender your life!
对了，不知百里兄打听到多少关于化龙海域的消息？¤By the way, I wonder how much information Brother Baili has heard about the Shifting Dragon Sea area?
百里兄，关于百里家与龙族之事我打听到的消息是这样的...¤Brother Baili, regarding the matter between the Baili family and the dragon clan, this is the information I have gathered...
{FirstName}{xiongdi}所言有理，我便去打听打听那化龙海域，宅子的事就拜托{xiongdi}了。¤{FirstName} speaks with reason, I will go and inquire about the Shifting Dragon Sea region. I leave the matter of the house to {xiongdi}.
但若贸然前去似乎有些冒险，这栋宅子说来古怪之处也颇多，不如我们分头打听一下再做打算。¤But if we go recklessly, it seems a bit risky. There are many peculiarities about this house, so let's split up and inquire before making a plan.
前人洞府，神兽遗物，甚至传说中的上古龙宫...能找到一个便是无上的机缘了！¤Former Cave, divine beast relics, and even the ancient dragon palace from legends... finding just one of these is already an unparalleled opportunity!
现如今，蓬莎岛上的修士主要分为三类。一类以组队猎杀海兽，收集材料为主要目标，一类则是到处收购材料，从而赚取差价的私人商队。¤Currently, cultivators on Pongsha Island can be broadly categorized into three types. One type focuses on teaming up to hunt sea beasts and collect materials, while the other type operates as private merchants who purchase and resell materials for profit.
这位道友看着眼生，应该是第一次来采筠阁吧？¤This fellow daoist looks unfamiliar, is this your first time visiting Caegyun Pavilion?
至于最后一类，便是我们这些采筠阁内的修士。我们出海探索，发掘，研究各种能找到的古代文献与遗物，以期得到有用的情报，去发掘海域中隐藏着的秘宝。¤As for the last type, it is us cultivators from Caegyun Pavilion. We venture out to sea to explore, excavate, and research all kinds of ancient texts and artifacts that we can find in the hopes of gaining useful information and uncovering the hidden treasures within the waters.
这可不好说，这些珍贵的东西要不然就埋在哪座无人岛屿的泥土之中，也可能被什么海兽给吃进了肚子。总之，有缘自会发现。¤This is hard to say, these precious things might either be buried in the soil of some uninhabited island or eaten by some sea beast. In any case, they will be found by fate.
你可以用它们交易到其它你感兴趣的情报，甚至只是单纯的换取灵石，也是不错的选择。¤You can use them to trade for other information that interests you, or even just exchange them for spirit stones, which is also a good choice.
蓬莎岛实际是海上的修士们为了收集、交换海兽情报，寻找上古秘宝而结成的一个松散的散修同盟组织。¤Pengsha Island is actually a loose alliance organization of wandering cultivators formed by cultivators on the sea to collect and exchange information about sea beasts and search for ancient treasures.
哈哈哈，那是自然。而且即便是情报价值较低的遗物，在采筠阁内也不愁找不到买家。因为这里还有不少像我这样，只是单纯对古代文明和传说感兴趣的爱好者。¤Hahaha, that is natural. Even relics with low intelligence value do not worry about finding buyers in Caegyun Pavilion. Because there are still many people like me who are simply interested in ancient civilization and legends.
最初时，岛上只是时不时举办情报与物资的小型交易会。但随着名声传开，越来越多的散修汇聚到这里，举办拍卖会，交换情报，或是组队出海猎杀海兽，蓬莎岛也慢慢发展为无尽之海上的一股重要势力。¤Initially, the island only held small-scale trade fairs for intelligence and materials. But as its reputation spread, more and more self-cultivators congregated here, holding auctions, exchanging intelligence, or teaming up to hunt sea beasts. Pongsha Island gradually developed into an important force in the endless sea.
单独的一份情报可能没什么作用，但若是情报拼凑成完整的线索，你就有可能真的发掘到那些传说中的遗迹。¤A single piece of intelligence may not have much effect, but if the intelligence is pieced together into a complete clue, you may really discover those legendary ruins.
不错，这采筠阁与我想象的倒是大不一样，道友能否为在下介绍一二？¤Not bad, this Caegyun Pavilion is quite different from what I imagined. Fellow Daoist, can you introduce it to me?
原来如此。那若是我找到了什么有价值的古代文献或遗物，也可以来这里交易么？¤So that's how it is. If I find valuable ancient documents or relics, can I come here to trade them?
（真是稀奇，这采筠阁里尽摆的是一些看不懂的石刻碑文和没见过的奇怪物件，也不知究竟是做什么的...）¤(It's really strange, the Caegyun Pavilion is filled with inscriptions and strange objects that I can't understand, and I don't know what they are for...)
海域情报有什么用？¤What is the use of oceanic intelligence?
去哪里能够找到这些古代遗物？¤Where can one find these ancient relics?
哈哈，采筠阁与蓬沙岛一脉相承，甚至可以说，采筠阁便是如今蓬沙岛的前身。道友可清楚蓬莎岛的由来？¤Haha, Caegyun Pavilion is closely related to Pongsha Island, and one could even say that Caegyun Pavilion was the predecessor of Pongsha Island today. Fellow Daoist, are you familiar with the origin of Pongsha Island?
少了个翘家阔少，又回到了一人一剑的旅程，些许有些寂寞。\n¤Missing the wealthy young master who likes to show off, returning to the journey alone with a sword, feeling a little bit lonely.
既然都来了武陵城，不如便先去那{color=#d0380a}升仙台{/color}看看吧。¤Since we have come to Wuling City, why not go check out the Ascension Terrace {color=#d0380a}{/color} first.
一说这我可就来劲了，当即冲上前去...你猜怎么着？¤Upon hearing this, I became excited and immediately rushed forward... Guess what happened next?
之前被关在府里修炼，可把我给憋坏了。¤Before, I was locked up in the mansion for cultivation, which made me feel extremely bored.
你挑眼望去，武陵城内杀声渐歇，城内的魔修已被扑杀殆尽。¤You looked closely and saw that the sounds of killing in Wuling City had gradually stopped. The demonic cultivators inside the city had been killed almost to the last man. 
明明素不相识，却助少主脱困，真是英雄出少年。少主也不是初犯了，得让他好好闭门思过。¤Although they were not familiar with each other, X helped the young master escape from danger. X is a young hero. The young master is not a first-time offender, so he needs to reflect on his actions during his confinement.
少主还是别浪费法宝了，以你的修为绝不可能当着我的面遁走。¤Master, it's better not to waste your artifacts. With your cultivation, you will never be able to escape in front of me.
咳咳...这帮疯子。¤Ahem...these crazy people.
有剑阵相助，倪振东已是稳占上风。¤With the assistance of the sword array, Ni Zhendong has already firmly gained the upper hand.
{xiaozi}小心！！~这家伙要自爆元婴了！！！¤{xiaozi} Be careful!!~ This guy is about to self-destruct nascent soul!!!
“轰隆”{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Booming sound {vpunch=10,0.5}
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，难得又在武陵城相遇，怎么这就要走啦？¤{FirstName} brother, it's rare to meet again in Wuling City. Why do you have to leave so soon?
你婉言拒绝了倪旭欣，他看上去很是失落...¤You politely rejected Ni Xuxin, and he looked very disappointed.
一道剑光划过，地面被斩出一道巨大的裂痕，而对面的魔修已经灰飞烟灭。¤A sword light slashed through, leaving a huge crack in the ground, while the opposite demonic cultivator had been reduced to ashes.
{FirstName}...{FirstName}{xiongdi}，等等我！¤{FirstName}... {FirstName} {xiongdi}, wait for me!
哈哈哈，凌轩小儿，把剑交出来！！！！¤Hahaha, Ling Xuan, hand over the sword!!!!
天空中出现青龙、白虎、朱雀、玄武，四象的虚影。¤In the sky, there appeared phantom images of the Azure Dragon, White Tiger, Vermilion Bird, and Black Tortoise, the Four Elephants.
道友请留步。我家宗主邀您来府上一聚。这份请帖还请收下。¤Fellow Daoist, please stay. My family's sect leader invites you to the manor for a gathering. Please accept this invitation.
呵呵呵，我知道的也就比这再多一点……放心，我对你没有恶意。¤Hehehe, I know a little more than that... Don't worry, I have no malicious intent towards you.
噗！¤Puff!
倪振东，这是你逼我的！！¤Ni Zhendong, this is your doing!!
你刚离开升仙台，便听到身后有人大声叫你。¤You have just left the Ascension Terrace when you hear someone loudly calling you from behind.
嘿嘿，上次是我大意了，这一次我可是有备而来。我拖住他，你们动手。¤Hey hey, last time I was careless, but this time I've come prepared. I'll hold him back, you guys take action.
快快快，我带你去{color=#d0380a}升仙台{/color}了解了解，顺便跟你一起报个名玩玩，打个几场再溜也来得及……¤Hurry, I'll take you to the {color=#d0380a}ascension terrace{/color} to learn more about it, and we can also sign up together for some fun, play a few rounds before leaving... 
但这些终究只是我们的猜测而已，如果能当面见到他，一切问题自当迎刃而解。¤But these are ultimately just our guesses. If we can meet him face-to-face, all the problems will be solved naturally.
哼，废物一个。凌轩小儿，这次就放过你！！哈哈哈！¤Hmph, useless person. Ling Xuan, I'll let you go this time!! Hahaha!
明明素不相识，却助少主脱困，真是英雄出少年。¤Although they were previously strangers, he helped the young master escape from danger, truly a case of a hero emerging from a young man.
这一次你们宫主不在，你说你能接我几剑？¤This time your palace master is not here, how many moves do you think you can take from me?
你又以为我为什么会在这里等你？¤What do you think I am waiting for you here?
想走？¤Want to leave?
你快速退到一边。¤You quickly step aside.
的确，当年你与血剑宫弟子交手时我便有此疑惑。¤Indeed, when you fought against the Blood Sword Palace disciple back then, I had this doubt.
地图都在你手里拿着了还能怎么着......¤The map is in your hands, so what else can you do?
呵呵，我知道的也就比这再多一点……放心，我对你没有恶意。¤Hehe, I know a little more than this... Don't worry, I don't have any ill intentions towards you.
（倪少灰头土脸地离开了）¤(Ni Shao left with a dirty and disheveled face.)
倪兄的意思是...？¤What does Brother Ni mean...?
我不来，你难道愿意自己回家吗？¤I'm not coming. Are you willing to go back home by yourself?
那我就在武陵城客栈，等您了。¤Then I'll be waiting for you at Wuling City Inn.
血剑宫剑法亦是通过损耗自身精血的方式施展，而且攻守招式都与白帝楼颇为相像。¤The sword techniques of the Blood Sword Palace are also executed by sacrificing one's own essence and blood, and both offensive and defensive maneuvers are quite similar to those of the White Emperor Pavilion.
请问有事吗？¤May I ask if there's anything?
{xiaozi}，小心这是有化神修士来了。¤{xiaozi}, be careful, a cultivator who has undergone deity transformation has arrived.
现在还想走？¤Do you still want to leave now?
一道身影从白帝楼冲出和空中的血影纠缠起来。¤A figure rushed out from the White Emperor Pavilion and engaged in a fight with the bloody shadow in the sky.
家主嘱咐我带你回府，好好闭门思过。¤The clan leader instructed me to take you back to the manor and reflect on your mistakes in seclusion.
突然，一道声音响彻全城。¤Suddenly, a voice resounded throughout the entire city.
一道道血红色的剑光从空中落下直逼武陵城，但途中被一一化解。¤Blood-red sword light descended from the sky and directly attacked Wuling City, but it was dissolved one by one on the way.
你曾领悟过我御剑门神通，也学过白帝楼的剑招法门，可有察觉到其中差别？¤Have you ever comprehended the divine skill of the Imperial Sword Sect or learned the sword techniques of the White Emperor Pavilion without noticing the differences between them?
{xiongdi}你虽然刚出山不久，可千万不能不知道{color=#d0380a}英杰会{/color}啊！要是能夺魁争到{color=#d0380a}筑基丹{/color}，可是免去了筑基时的不少麻烦。¤{xiongdi}, although you have just recently emerged, you must not be unaware of the {color=#d0380a}Young Hero's Tournament{/color}! If you can win and obtain the {color=#d0380a}Foundation Pill{/color}, you can avoid many troubles during the {color=#d0380a}Foundation Building{/color} stage.
记得当年宁州曾有一小派唤作禾山道，功法神通皆可通过损耗自身精血施展。¤Remember that there was once a small sect in Ningzhou called Mt. Harvest Sect, where techniques and divine skills could be used by consuming one's own blood.
你知道我的名字？¤Do you know my name?
（小心张望）{FirstName}{xiongdi}借一步说话...¤(Be cautious and look around) {FirstName}, may I have a word with you, {xiongdi}...
此次协助守城，参与击杀魔修的修士，可以来我白帝楼领取奖励。¤This time, cultivators who assist in defending the city and participate in killing demonic cultivators can come to my White Emperor Pavilion to receive rewards.
这种来历不明的地图你也相信？¤Do you also believe in a map of unknown origin?
相传白帝楼是一千多年前由白帝亲手创建，从时间上看，倒也与凌轩师兄的修为相吻合。¤According to legend, White Emperor Pavilion was created over a thousand years ago by the White Emperor himself, and from a temporal perspective, it is also in line with Senior Brother Ling Xuan's cultivation level.
小友小心这这祭血使不是你能应付的。¤Be careful, young friend. This blood sacrificial ritual is not something you can handle.
突然，武陵城内剑光四起，直指白帝楼。¤Suddenly, sword lights burst forth within Wuling City, pointing directly at White Emperor Pavilion.
两道遁光追逐而去，见势不妙，之前参与进攻的人四散而逃。¤Two rays of escape light chased after each other. Seeing the situation was not good, the people who participated in the previous attack scattered and fled.
前些日子我在坊市里淘到一张神秘地图，据说这上面记录的可是某位大能的洞府遗迹。我本来正准备着要去探索一番，没想到就在城里遇见了你，真是巧极！¤A few days ago, I found a mysterious map in the marketplace. It is said to record the ruins of a powerful cave of some sort. I was planning to explore it, but I never expected to meet you here in the city. What a coincidence!
让我想想...御剑门的剑法飘逸灵动，一旦出手便是连绵不绝的攻势，以速度冠绝天下。¤Let me think...The swordsmanship of the Imperial Sword Sect is elegant and agile, once it's used, it becomes an endless attack, and its speed surpasses that of anyone in the world.
那有缘人必定是小爷我啊！走走走，有福同享，有福同享，找到了宝贝咱两平分！¤That destined person must be me, your humble servant! Let's go, let's go, share the luck together, share the luck together, once we find the treasure, we'll split it evenly!
一道血红色的剑光，自天而降半途被另一道飞出自白帝楼的剑光截下。¤A blood-red sword light descended from the sky and was intercepted halfway by another sword light flying out from the White Emperor Pavilion.
好吧，是我唐突了。¤Okay, I was impolite.
要说最热闹的，就是今年举办的英杰会了，那可比东石谷还要火热。¤Speaking of the liveliest event, it would be this year's young hero's tournament, which is even more popular than East Stone Valley.
{FirrstName}道友，少主给你添麻烦了。¤Dear fellow daoist {FirrstName}, the young master has caused you trouble. Note
（低声）你看这是什么？¤(Whispering) Look, what is this?
白帝楼剑法招式凌厉，威能不俗。但运气方式和御剑门截然不同，有时需损耗自身精血方能发挥招式最大威力。¤The sword techniques and moves of the White Emperor Pavilion are fierce and powerful. However, their method of using energy is completely different from that of the Imperial Sword Sect. At times, one may need to sacrifice their own blood in order to unleash the full power of their moves.
{xiongdi}有所不知，本来我也将信将疑。当时那商贩周围想购买此图的人可谓是张袂成阴，不过他说这地图无需竞\r价，只售给有缘人。¤Brothers, little do you know, I too was skeptical. At the time, those around the merchant wanting to purchase this map were as numerous as clouds in the sky. However, he said that this map did not require bidding and would only be sold to those with fate.
四象封魔阵，起！¤Four Elephants Seal Demon Formation, Activate!
哈哈哈，你以为我们没有准备吗？¤Hahaha, did you think we weren't prepared?
我还是不要横生波折为好啊。¤I still shouldn't create unnecessary trouble.
你曾领悟过我御剑门神通，也见识过白帝楼的剑招法门，可有察觉到其中差别？¤Have you ever enlightened yourself with the divine skill of my Imperial Sword Sect, and witnessed the sword techniques of White Emperor Pavilion, did you notice the difference between them?
（倪兄弟是否还在思过呢？正好去帮他说点好话……）¤(Are Ni brothers still reflecting on their actions? I'll go help them out and say some kind words...)
倪振东？？¤Ni Zhendong??
他小心翼翼地掏出一张看起来破破烂烂的旧皮纸，拿给你看。¤He carefully took out an old piece of tattered leather paper and showed it to you.
倪兄？¤Brother Ni?
好在前段时间我突破到了炼气后期，好说歹说，才说服了杨叔放我出来历练一番。¤Luckily, I broke through to the late stage of Qi refining recently. After some persuasion, Uncle Yang allowed me to go out and gain some experience.
血河？就来了你一个人？¤Blood river? Only you came?
血剑宫的道友，在下等候多时了。¤Blood Sword Palace's fellow daoist, I have been waiting for a long time.
多谢前辈。¤Thanks, senior.
这是谁？仅凭威压就让我不得动弹！！¤Who is this? I can't even move due to the might suppression alone!!
滚开，别挡我去路。¤Move aside, don't block my way.
小女子对白帝楼鼎鼎大名的三才剑向往已久，但难以加入白帝楼...¤This humble woman has long sought after the renowned Three-Realms Sword of the White Emperor Pavilion, yet it is difficult to become a member of the Pavilion.
前些日子我在坊市里淘到一张神秘地图，据说这上面记录的可是某位大能的洞府遗迹。我这次来找你，正是想邀请你同我一起去地图上记载的遗迹寻宝。¤A few days ago, I found a mysterious map in the marketplace. It is said to record the ruins of a certain powerful person's cave. I have come to invite you to join me in searching for the ruins recorded on the map.
杨管家！！！你怎么找到这来了！！！¤Yang steward!!! How did you find your way here!!!
你总觉得事出反常，哪有什么遗迹地图会拿到坊市上这样大张旗鼓地出售。这倪家少爷看上去傻乎乎的没啥社会阅历，一准是被人给骗了。¤You always feel that something is wrong. How could a map of ancient ruins be sold so publicly in the marketplace? This young master from the Ni family seems naive and inexperienced, he was probably scammed.
...那可真是恭喜倪兄了。¤That's really congratulations to Brother Ni.
等忙完英杰会，家主会在府上设宴答谢，还请务必赏光！¤Upon finishing the young hero's tournament, the head of the family will hold a banquet at the manor to express gratitude and humbly ask for your presence. Please do attend!
第一次来武陵城吧？这可是我们倪家亲手所建。虽然规模比不得天星城，但也是远近闻名的散修云集之地。¤First time in Wuling City, huh? This is the place that our Ni Family has built with our own hands. Though its scale may not match that of Starsky City, it's still a well-known land where wandering cultivators gather.
我家宗主邀您来府上一聚,这份请帖还请收下。¤My family's patriarch invites you to come to the manor for a gathering. Please accept this invitation.
你刚踏入武陵城，便听到有人大地呼喊你的名字。¤As soon as you step into Wuling City, you hear someone shouting your name.
哼，找死。¤Hmph, you're asking for death.
你架不住倪旭欣的盛情邀约，虽然有些怀疑，但还是答应同他一起前往。¤You can't resist Ni Xuxin's generous invitation, although you have some doubts, you still agreed to go with him.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，真是好久不见。上次一别后我就被我爹被关在府里修炼，可把我给憋坏了。¤Dear {FirstName} {xiongdi}, long time no see. After our last separation, my father locked me up in the mansion to cultivate. It was really suffocating.
这样想来，白帝楼的招式倒是有些像...¤Upon further consideration, the techniques of White Emperor Pavilion are somewhat similar to...
少主既已归城，何不回府看看？¤Since the young master has already returned to the city, why not go back to the mansion and take a look?
不知，道友你可否传我《人剑》《剑典-人道篇》，我愿出1000灵石酬谢你。¤I don't know, fellow daoist, can you please share with me the 'human sword manual humane chapter', I am willing to pay 1000 spirit stones as a reward.
{xiaozi}，这家伙修为至少是金丹，不过被那疯子的自爆波及身受重伤，你倒不是不能一战。¤{xiaozi}, this guy's cultivation is at least at the golden core level, but he was seriously wounded in the aftermath of that maniac's self-destructive explosion. However, that doesn't mean you can't beat him in a fight.
听说天魔道秘术皆要献祭自身精血方可施展，与白帝楼招式倒有异曲同工之妙。¤I heard that the secret arts of the Heavenly Demon Cult require the sacrifice of one's own blood to be manifested, which is similar to the techniques used by the White Emperor Pavilion.
虽然咱俩修为不够，估计拿不了什么名次，但是这英杰会{color=#d0380a}五年一次{/color}，可是难得一见。¤Although our cultivation is not enough to obtain any high rankings, this Young Hero's Tournament {color=#d0380a}held every five years{/color} is a rare event that we cannot miss.
等忙完英杰会，家主会在府上设宴答谢，还请小友务必赏光！¤After the Young Hero's Tournament is over, the head of the family will host a banquet at the manor to express gratitude, and it is hoped that the young friends will attend and grace us with their presence!
莫非白帝还和魔门有什么渊源？¤Could it be that the White Emperor still has some connection with the Demon Sect?
你这{xiaozi}倒当真奇怪，这么重大的盛会不急着参加，倒想着出去晃晃，罢了，随你吧，别误了时间便好。¤You are really strange, {xiaozi}. Instead of hurrying to attend such an important event, you want to go out and wander around. Oh well, it's up to you. Just don't waste time.
{xiaozi}，着急出城干什么，好不容易到了这武陵城，这升仙台怎么不去观上一观？¤{xiaozi}, why are you in such a hurry to leave the city? We finally made it to Wuling City, why don't we go check out the Ascension Terrace?
{xiaozi}，这种盛会，对现在的你而言，参加了总是有利无害的，哪怕观赛也能有所收获。¤{xiaozi}, this kind of grand occasion is always beneficial and harmless for you to participate in, even if you just watch, you can still gain something.
这个嘛，修仙界的有头有脸的势力都会花心思举办诸如此类的盛会，以鼓励后进刻苦修行、相互切磋学习，让有能之人可以脱颖而出。¤Well, prominent forces in the world of cultivators would invest effort organizing grand events like this to encourage the diligent practice and mutual learning of novice cultivators, allowing the gifted individuals to shine.
好，孺子可教，咱们走吧。¤fine.
倪府上下正在筹办英杰会，暂时不便接待外客。¤The Ni Manor is currently preparing for the Young Hero's Tournament and cannot receive any outside guests at the moment.
看来秘市交易还没有开始，还是{color=#d0380a}明年{/color}再来吧。¤It seems that the trading in the secret market has not started yet, so let's come back next year.
这里空荡荡的，一个人也没有。¤Here is empty, there is no one.
你感受到了一股禁制之力阻挡你不能前进。\n¤You felt a force of prohibition blocking you from advancing.
说来话长...¤The story is long...
再次睁眼时，你们已经回到了百里奇的房间。¤When you open your eyes again, you are back in Baili Qi's room.
百里兄，可是这盏石莲灯？¤Brother Baili, is this the Stone Lotus Lamp?
这是一处略显粗糙的石室，四周的石壁未经过细致的打磨，露出些许尖锐的棱角。铜制壁灯中昏暗的灵气火焰摇曳着，投出一片青色的光影。¤This is a slightly rough stone chamber, with rough stone walls that reveal some sharp edges. The dim spiritual flame in the bronze wall lamp flickers and casts a cyan-colored shadow.
...{FirstName}{xiongdi}？你怎会找到这里？¤{FirstName}, {xiongdi}? How did you find this place?
这是何处......？¤Where is this place...?
你将在百里府中遇到的事转述给百里奇，他一边听一边连连叹气。¤You will relay what you encounter in the Baili Mansion to Baili Qi, who will sigh continuously as he listens.
话说回来，百里兄又为何被这瓶中阵法所困？¤In this regard, why was Brother Baili trapped by this formation in the bottle?
你与百里奇的灵力缓缓注入灯中，那石莲逐渐绽放出耀眼的光彩。一时间青光大盛，你二人不禁闭上双眼。¤You slowly infused your spiritual power with Baili Qi into the lamp, causing the stone lotus to gradually bloom into a dazzling light. For a moment, the blue light shone brightly, and both of you couldn't help but close your eyes.
阵眼便是石室正中的那盏石莲灯，先前我尝试过以力破阵，但没能成功。如今{FirstName}{xiongdi}来了，合你我二人之力应当能破开此阵。¤The formation eye is the stone lotus lamp in the center of the stone room. I had previously tried to break the formation with my strength, but was unsuccessful. Now, with the help of {FirstName} and {xiongdi}, we should be able to break this formation with our combined efforts.
这阵法据说是父亲从公孙家那得来的，公孙季最擅长阵法之道，经常制些像这样精巧的阵法。¤The array is said to have been obtained by my father from the Gongsun family. Gongsun Ji was the most skilled in the path of array and often created elaborate arrays like this one.
龙珠被我藏了起来，父亲得知此事为防止我将龙珠送还给龙族，一气之下便将我关进了这里。¤The dragon ball was hidden by me. When my father found out, in order to prevent me from returning the dragon ball to the dragon clan, he angrily locked me up here.
正是。{FirstName}{xiongdi}向其中注入灵力，其余交由我来便可。¤It is so. {FirstName} infused spiritual energy into it, leave the rest to me.
{shidi}，来药田所为何事？\n¤{shidi}, what brings you to the herbs field?
前辈，来药田所为何事？\n¤Senior, why have you come to the herbs field?
晚辈告退。\n¤The junior takes his leave.
走走，而已，你不用管我。¤Just a walk, that's all. You don't have to worry about me.
没事，走走而已。\n（刚刚隐约一股神识扫过，果然宗门重地深藏不漏啊。）¤It's nothing, just taking a stroll. (Just now, a vague sense of divine perception swept by. As expected, the secrets of the clan's important places are deeply hidden.)
原来，师兄当值药田。\n（果然，宗门重地不可能，只有筑基期弟子驻守。）¤Previously, senior brother was on duty at the herbs field. (Sure enough, only foundation establishment disciples are stationed at important places of the clan.)
师兄，前来药田所为何事？\n¤Senior brother, what brings you to the herb field?
{shidi}，这宗门内部的药田内种植的都是非常珍贵稀有的草药，普通弟子是不能擅自采集的。¤{shidi}, the herbs field within the clan only grows extremely precious and rare medicinal herbs, which regular disciples are not allowed to gather without permission.
你将{$shili}秘籍几乎洗劫一空后，在一众敢怒不敢言的修士注视下，满足的离开了。至于之后{$shili}作何反应，那也不是你想关心的了。¤You will leave satisfied after almost robbing the secret manual of its contents in front of a group of cultivators who dare not speak out. As for how they will react afterwards, that is not something you care to know.
道友不必远送，有机会还会再来的，哈哈哈。¤Fellow daoist, there is no need for a long farewell. If fate allows, we shall meet again. Hahaha.
也没什么好东西，今日就算卖{$shili}个面子吧。¤There's nothing good either. Just consider it as giving {$shili} a face today and sell it.
哼，这便是我{$shili}的全部神通功法了，自行取阅。¤Hmph, these are all of my divine skills and techniques based on my {$shili}. Take them and read them at your own leisure.
（每选取一本秘籍会导致对应程度的声望下降）¤(Selecting a secret manual will result in a corresponding decrease in reputation.)
“难道这是老头儿之前提到的阵法...？”¤Could this be the array that the old man mentioned earlier...?
圣地之门已开，接下来就由连管事带领小友前往圣地领悟秘法了。¤The door to the holy land has opened, and now it is up to the steward to lead the young friend to the holy land to comprehend the secret technique.
难道说圣坛其实并没有建造在很深的地底？¤Does this mean that the Sacred Altar wasn't actually built deep underground?
你随着管事走下面前的台阶，长长的石梯仿佛要深入地底似的，怎么走也走不到尽头。¤You follow the steward down the long stone stairs, which seem to lead deep into the ground, and walk towards what seems like an endless abyss.
管事在一旁微笑着注视你，看来这扇门也是考验中的一环，想必推不开这扇门的修士便与功法无缘了。¤The steward is standing by, smiling and watching you. It seems that this door is also a test, and those cultivators who cannot push open this door will have no chance with the technique.
此话怎讲？¤How to explain this?
实际上这楼梯并不是很长，你们只是在原地打转而已。¤Actually, this staircase is not very long. You are just spinning in place.
既然如此，便先请{$daoyou}随管事圣坛前稍加等候，本座稍事准备即可带小友前往圣坛。¤If that's the case, then please have {$daoyou} wait for a moment in front of the steward's sacred altar. I'll prepare myself and take the young friend to the sacred altar.
也罢，本座从不强迫别人，{$daoyou}若有自己的顾虑不愿加入势力也无妨，你永远是我们千流岛的客人。¤Anyway, I never force anyone, so if you have your own concerns and do not want to join our faction, {$daoyou}, it's fine. You will always be welcome as a guest on Myriad Rivers Island.
你们走入主岛正中肃穆庄严的楼阁，穿过层层回廊后来到了岛主平日修炼之地。¤You walked into the solemn and majestic building in the center of the main island, and after passing through layers of corridors, you arrived at the land where the island owner usually cultivates.
哈哈哈，{$daoyou}果然有气魄，千流岛正是缺少你这般人才！¤Hahaha, my friend, you truly have courage. Myriad rivers island is in need of talented individuals like yourself!
千流岛岛主闻言露出一丝微妙的笑容，这笑容一闪而过，让你以为只是自己生出了错觉。¤The Island Master of Myriad Rivers revealed a subtle smile at the words, which flashed by and made you think it was just your imagination.
随着注入灵气的增多，门上的阵法纹路散发出的光芒也愈发明亮，在你的灵力快要枯竭的紧要关头，木门灵光大盛，将你吸了进去。¤As the influx of spiritual energy increased, the lines of the array on the door emitted a brighter light. At the critical moment when your spiritual power was about to dry up, the spiritual light on the wooden door intensified and sucked you in.
{FirstName}道友，请随我来吧。¤Hello {FirstName}, please follow me.
{FirstName}道友，此门之后便是圣坛所在。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, the sacred altar is located beyond this door.
木门吸取了你的灵气后逐渐生出繁复的纹样，你仔细地端详着散发微弱光芒的纹路，试图分辨出它的功用。¤After absorbing your spiritual energy, the wooden door gradually produced intricate patterns. You carefully examined the faintly glowing patterns, trying to discern its function.
见过岛主，在下来自宁州，名为{FirstName}{LastName}。¤I have met the island master, I am from Ning Prefecture and my name is {FirstName}{LastName}.
你将顾忌压下心头，上前一步介绍起自己。¤You suppress the concern in your heart and step forward to introduce yourself.
千流岛的功法都置于圣坛内，届时{$daoyou}挑选完毕，可直接在这圣坛中修炼。¤The techniques of Myriad Rivers Island are stored within the Sacred Altar. After {$daoyou} have made their selection, they can cultivate directly within the Sacred Altar.
若{FirstName}{$daoyou}愿成为千流岛供奉，圣坛内的秘法可任你选择，届时这无尽之海中与你同等修为的修士都不能再对你构成威胁！¤If {FirstName}{$daoyou} is willing to become a guest elder of Myriad Rivers Island, you can freely choose the secret techniques inside the sacred altar. At that time, cultivators with the same level of cultivation as you in the Endless Sea will no longer be a threat to you!
我观{$daoyou}灵气充盈，道法天成，想来必为人中龙凤。¤I observe that {$daoyou} is abundant in fulfilling spiritual energy and has achieved Tiancheng in the Daoist way. I believe that {$daoyou} must be a remarkable figure among human beings.
恭喜岛主，我圣教又将新添一位实力出众的供奉。¤Congratulations Island Lord, our Holy Sect has added another outstanding Guest Elder to our ranks.
你向门内望去，整齐的石梯向下延伸至视野尽头，看来千流岛的圣坛应该就在这地下了。¤You looked towards the entrance and saw neatly arranged stone steps extending downwards to the end of your vision. It seems that the Sacred Altar of Myriad Rivers Island is located underground here.
言罢，那连家管事将你带回楼阁一层的一扇大门前，等候着岛主的到来。¤After speaking, the Lian family manager led you to a large door on the first level of the building and waited for the arrival of the island lord.
你上前把手放在门上，用力推了一下，按修为来讲你的肉体力量不容小觑，没想到那木门竟纹丝未动！¤You approached and placed your hand on the door, pushing with force. Judging by your cultivation level, your physical strength should not be underestimated, but surprisingly the wooden door did not even budge a little!
千流岛功法与这圣坛有密不可分的联系，{$daoyou}在修炼过程中自能体会其中奥妙。¤The cultivation techniques on Myriad Rivers Island are closely related to this Sacred Altar, and only {$daoyou} can truly understand the intricacies of this connection during their cultivation.
这楼梯看似没有尽头，却不过是楼阁中所布的一个阵法罢了。¤This staircase may seem endless, but it is merely an array set up within the palace.
你跟随连家管事通过一处阵法来到千流岛内部的主岛。此地为千流岛圣坛所在之处，岛主平时也居住在此。¤You follow the steward of the Lian family through an array, arriving at the main island within Myriad Rivers Island. This is where the Sacred Altar of Myriad Rivers Island is located, and the island owner usually resides here.
不错，这圣坛岂止不在地底，如果我想得没错，它甚至根本不在这楼阁的下面。我猜你们再走一会儿，他就会让你通过阵法到达圣坛的所在地了。¤Not bad, this sacred altar is not just underground. If I'm not mistaken, it's not even below this building at all. I guess if you keep walking, it will lead you to the location of the sacred altar through an array.
你将灵力凝在掌中，再次尝试推开木门。说来也怪，你掌上的灵力与木门相接时便如石沉大海般消融不见。¤You condense spiritual power in your palm and try pushing the wooden door again. It's strange to say but when your spiritual power connects with the wooden door, it dissolves and disappears like a stone sinking into the sea.
连家管事将你带到一扇厚重的木门前，示意你推开门走进去。¤The manager of the Lian family brought you to a heavy wooden door and gestured for you to push it open and walk inside.
这千流岛倒是有几分心机。¤This Myriad Rivers Island does have some scheming.
“有点意思......”¤A bit interesting...
你从储物袋里取出这两样东西，按魏无极所说兑成晶莹的液体。¤You took out these two things from the storage pouch and combined them into a crystal-clear liquid as instructed by Wuji.
哼，要是现在不叫醒你，恐怕你这辈子也醒不了了！¤Hmph, if I don't wake you up now, you might not be able to wake up for the rest of your life!
可能因这功法过于霸道，才令其他方面有了缺陷。¤It is possible that due to the dominance of this technique, other aspects have developed defects.
你将这功法前篇修练一番于我看看，说不定便能摸清其中门道。¤Practice the first part of this technique and let me take a look. Maybe we can figure out some mysteries of it.
看来这阵法能够放大功法中的纰漏，将暗含的离魂咒融入你的识海中，如此便可掌握修练功法的修士。¤It seems that this array can amplify the flaws in techniques, and integrate the hidden Soul Separation curse into your sea of consciousness. By doing so, it allows cultivators to master the practice of techniques.
突然之间，你脑中传来一阵剧痛，原是魏无极见你沉迷其中便用了神识攻击，将你从修炼中唤醒。¤Suddenly, a sharp pain strikes your mind, caused by Wei Wuji attacking your soul sense to wake you up from your cultivation.
好，好...¤fine.
多了一些不明不白的东西，我分辨不出来...¤There are some unclear things that I cannot distinguish anymore...
这功法看起来有扰魂之效，连家身为千流岛第一大家族，传承功法本不应出现这种纰漏才对。¤This technique seems to have the effect of disturbing spirits. Even the Lian family, as the number one family on Myriad Rivers Island, should not have made such a mistake in passing down their techniques.
管事当真不愿放行？¤Is the steward really unwilling to let it go?
那之后魔修又寻机夺舍了我取而代之，并将我的元神困于此处修练秘法。¤Afterwards, the demonic cultivator seized the opportunity to take over my body and trapped my Yuan God here to practice a secret technique.
你将它细细引导出来，让我看看此为何物。¤You guide it out carefully, let me take a look at what this is.
正因如此，你侥幸逃离了这个魔窟。¤Because of this, you luckily escaped from this devil's cave.
你神魂目前状况如何？¤How is your spiritual condition now?
道友得了我连家秘术后才心生悔意，恐怕太迟了些吧？¤Fellow daoist, after learning my family's secret arts, have you only now regretted it? Perhaps it's already too late?
霎时间从阴影里跳出几位身着黑袍的修士将你围住，齐齐向你发动攻击。¤Several cultivators dressed in black robes suddenly jumped out of the shadows and surrounded you, launching a strike against you at the same time.
我在密室内左思右想，感觉还是自在无拘的修仙生活更适合我。¤I pondered in the secret chamber and felt that the free and unrestrained life of cultivation suited me better.
我乃千流岛岛主连盛平，受魔门桎梏，在此地受苦已有百千年！¤I am the Myriad Rivers Island Master, Lian Shengping. I have been suffering here for thousands of years, bound by the shackles of the demonic sect.
这些书简便是连家秘传的功法与神通，以道友目前对于千流岛的贡献，道友可修习的是这本《灭灵诀》。¤These books are the techniques and divine skills of the Lian family's secret heritage. Based on fellow daoist's contribution to Myriad Rivers Island, the technique that fellow daoist can learn is this 《spirit destroying skill》.
功法我并未修练，管事可随时收回。¤I have not practiced the technique, and the steward can be taken back at any time.
我仔细观察了一下，这些阵法虽对你的修练有着极强的增益，但会在其中加入一些诡异的效果。¤I have carefully observed that although these arrays have extremely strong enhancement effects on your cultivation, they will also incorporate some sinister effects. 
只觉刺骨的阴寒之气扑面而来，你急忙运起灵气护体。¤You feel a piercingly cold aura attacking you, and quickly activate your spiritual energy to protect yourself.
顷刻，令人舒畅的暖流冲洗着你的四肢百骸，丹田也涌起一丝暖意。你沉浸在功法带来的美妙感觉中，想要继续修炼下去。¤In an instant, a refreshing warm stream washes over your limbs and bones, and a warmth also emerges in your dantian. You are immersed in the wonderful feeling brought by the technique and want to continue to cultivate further.
你觉得此物不似善类，还是少沾染为妙。你逃出此地，飞快地沿着台阶向上，离开了这座楼阁。¤You feel that this thing is not like a good person, so it's best to avoid getting too close. You escape from this place and quickly run up the stairs to leave this tower.
道友这是......？¤Fellow Daoist, what is this...?
可岛主分明还健在，前辈可否将其中缘由讲来？¤The island master is clearly still alive, senior, could you explain the reason behind it?
你一心只想变得强大，并没有过多在意此事，毕竟强劲的功法有些弊端也并非不能接受。¤You only have a single-minded desire to become strong, and haven't paid too much attention to this matter. After all, even strong techniques have some drawbacks that can still be accepted.
你察觉到机会，祭出法宝攻了上去！¤You have detected an opportunity, use your artifact to attack! 
在你艰难抵抗寒气时，从这祭台中传出飘忽虚渺的声音。¤While you struggle against the cold, a faint and ethereal voice emanates from this altar.
我怎么会在这种地方，到底发生什么了？¤How did I end up in this place? What happened exactly?
我实在是心有余而力不足，还是保全自己要紧。¤I really lack the strength even though my heart is willing, so it's better to take care of myself first.
老头儿，你干什么！¤Old man, what are you doing!
只见连盛平的躯体蓦地升腾起翻涌的灵气，不须多时他的修为便逐渐地弱了下去。¤Suddenly, waves of spiritual energy surged from Lian Shengping's body. In just a short time, his cultivation gradually weakened.
不知为何此处极其阴冷，你四下搜寻了一番，角落里一块祭台散发着森白的光芒。¤For some reason, this place is extremely cold. You searched around but found a white-glowing altar in the corner.
没想到连家背后这等猖狂，也不知究竟有多少修士遇害过...¤I didn't expect the rampantness behind the Lian family. I wonder how many cultivators have been killed.
你用力推开木门，正见到门外一脸愕然的的连家管事。¤You pushed open the wooden door with force, only to see the steward of the Lian family looking at you with a stunned expression.
幕后黑手不除，恐怕日后还会有更多的修士遭此毒手。¤If the black hand behind the scenes is not removed, I am afraid that more cultivators will suffer from this poison in the future.
这功法果然邪门儿，老头儿！¤This technique is truly sinister, old man!
不止是功法邪门儿，方才你修练的时候这石台上的阵法也全部都亮了起来。¤Not only the techniques are mysterious, but also all the arrays on this stone platform lit up when you were practicing just now.
这功法邪门儿得紧，方才你修练之时圣坛上所纹刻的阵法接连亮起，似乎与这功法有所呼应。我仔细观察了一下，这些阵法虽对你的修练有着极强的增益，但会在其中加入一些诡异的效果。¤The technique is extremely sinister. When you were practicing just now, the array on the sacred altar lit up one after another, seemingly responding to this technique. I carefully observed that although these arrays have a very strong enhancement effect on your practice, they will also add some strange effects to it.
若我将前辈放出，前辈能否保证夺回身体后，日后的千流岛不会对供奉施此毒术？¤If I release the senior, can the senior guarantee that after regaining their body, Myriad Rivers Island will not use this poisonous technique against the guest elder?
幸好你先前修练过敛息方面的功法，你运起功法，悄悄地逃离了这座诡异的建筑。¤Fortunately, you had previously practiced techniques related to restraint. You activated your technique and quietly escaped from this eerie building.
得了岛主的承诺，你谨慎地拔除了骨钉破除阵法，放出他的元神。¤After obtaining the promise of the island owner, you carefully removed the bone nail to break the array, releasing his yuan god.
擂台管事不知从哪掏出一只通体莹白的哨子，放在嘴边吹响。¤The steward of the ring pulled out a glistening white whistle from somewhere and blew it at his mouth.
你靠近祭台，刺骨的寒意向你袭来，霎时间令你感觉元神仿佛都要被这阵寒意冻住。¤You approach the altar, and a bone-chilling coldness assails you. In an instant, you feel as though your yuan god is about to be frozen by this coldness.
我明明是来修练功法的...你们连家欺人太甚！¤I am here to cultivate techniques...you all are too oppressive!
你依魏无极所言捕住那缕黑气，小心地将它牵离自己的识海。¤As per Wei Wuji's words, you captured that strand of black qi, carefully pulled it away from your sea of consciousness.
修炼了这个功法？¤Did you cultivate this technique?
先前遇到的千流岛修士看起来十分冷漠的原因难道是因为...¤The reason why the cultivator from Myriad Rivers Island I met earlier seemed very indifferent, could it be because...
千年前有位魔修夺舍了我的心腹，献上离魂咒并唆使我控制岛上供奉。唉...我一时鬼迷心窍，听信魔门谗言，待供奉皆被控制后那魔修施法令其全部听从他的命令，一举夺得了千流岛内部的控制权。¤A demon cultivator took over my trusted subordinate's body a millennium ago and offered the Separation Soul curse to me, encouraging me to control the guest elders on the island. Alas...I was momentarily bewitched and listened to the slander from the demonic sect. After all the guest elders were controlled, the demon cultivator used his magic to make them all obey his command, and thus gained complete control over the internal affairs of Myriad Rivers Island.
但若阵法受损，背后控制这一切的人定有所感知，届时恐怕会有一场苦战。¤However, if the array is damaged, the person controlling everything behind the scenes will definitely sense it, and it may lead to a bitter battle.
连家实在过分，竟如此对待前来投靠的修士！老头儿，有没有什么办法能解开这离魂咒？¤The Chen family is really out of line, treating coming cultivators like this! Old man, is there any way to remove this soul-binding curse?
唉...那我便长话短说......¤Ah...then let me make a long story short...
莫非这连家故意唆使供奉修练有纰漏的功法，再加以利用控制他们的心神？¤Could it be that the Lian family purposely incited the guest elders to cultivate flawed techniques, and then used that to control their minds? 
你阖上双眸，检查着自己识海内的状况，你敏锐地发现一丝诡谲的黑气盘旋在其中。¤You close your eyes and examine the condition of your sea of knowledge. You keenly find a weird black gas hovering within it.
哦？离魂咒...没想到这种毒辣的禁术居然传承千年还未绝迹。此术正如其名，可将修士神魂与肉身分离，千年前多有邪修以此控制修士制成傀儡。¤Oh? The Separation Soul Curse... I didn't expect this cruel forbidden technique to still exist after thousands of years. As its name suggests, it can separate the soul and physical body of a cultivator. Many evil cultivators used this to control cultivators and turn them into puppets.
得知了连家阴谋的你决定趁早逃出这里，你选择¤Upon discovering the scheming of the Lian family, you decided to escape from here as soon as possible. You chose to sneak away, leaving behind a letter.
《灭灵诀》可以令道友的神通更上一层，强无敌手。¤The Spirit Destroying Skill can enhance the divine skill of fellow daoists, making them invincible against opponents at level 1.
机缘巧合之下你破开阵法，禁锢我的封印之力也因此薄弱许多，才会令我这元神的波动外泄。¤By chance, you broke the formation, causing the seal that imprisons my power to weaken, which then led to the disturbance of my yuan god.
说完，管事便转身离开了，你站在圣坛旁仔细地端详着手中的功法。¤After finishing speaking, the steward turned around and left. You stood beside the sacred altar carefully examining the technique in your hand.
正在此时，你的识海中突然传来一阵神秘的波动，像是有什么吸引着你一般，你转头看去，却是一扇墙壁。¤At this moment, a mysterious wave suddenly came from your sea of consciousness, as if something was attracting you. You turned to look, but it was a wall.
千流岛上虽好，但终究受人管辖，恐怕与我道心相悖。¤Although the Myriad Rivers Island is beautiful, it is ultimately under someone else's jurisdiction and may contradict my dao heart.
祭台上八颗骨钉整齐地按八卦的方位排开，一抹惨淡的元神在中央摇曳着。¤On the sacrificial altar, eight bone nails are arranged neatly according to the position of the eight trigrams, and a bleak yuan god sways in the center.
可是有人进来了？若你助本座脱离这里，本座定不会薄待于你！¤However, someone has come in? If you help this seat escape from here, this seat will definitely not treat you poorly!
这阵法绘以百兽血，布阵难破阵却容易，你只需拿些块寒玉磨成粉末兑上灵泉水冲洗纹刻便可。¤The formation is illustrated with the blood of hundreds of beasts, difficult to set up but easy to break. All you need to do is grind some pieces of cold jade into powder and mix it with spirit spring water to wash and inscribe the formation.
多谢小友，若本座取回身体...¤Thank you, young friend. If this one retrieves their body...
权衡益弊后你终究还是选择修练连家秘法，你端坐在圣坛之上，尝试着运行功法。¤After weighing the pros and cons, you ultimately choose to cultivate the Lian Family's secret technique. You sit upright on the sacred altar and attempt to operate the technique.
你摇了摇头，忽略掉这股感觉，飞快地逃出了这座楼阁。¤You shook your head, ignored this feeling, and quickly fled from this building.
你放缓脚步，靠近那面墙壁。墙面蓦地生出一股强大的吸力，将你吸进了墙内。¤You slow down your steps and approach the wall. Suddenly, a strong suction force emerges from the wall, sucking you into it.
你心头一震，方才刚见过岛主连盛平，他的元神又怎会在此处被困百千年？¤Your mind trembled. You had just seen Island Lord Lian Shengping, so how could his Yuan God be trapped here for thousands of years?
正交谈时魔修假冒的岛主从一旁冲出，双手成爪向你袭来。想必是他已感知阵法被毁，前来探查消息。¤During the chat, a demon cultivator impersonating the island owner rushed out from the side, with claws formed by both hands attacking you. Presumably, he had sensed that the array had been destroyed and came to investigate the news. 
愿助前辈剿灭魔修！¤Willing to assist senior in exterminating demonic cultivation!
让我想想...当年我对这等邪术避而不及，故所知甚少。¤Let me think... Back then, I avoided such dark arts and therefore knew very little about them.
听了魏无极的话，你端坐在圣坛之上，尝试着将功法运行一个小周天。¤After hearing Wei Wuji's words, you sit upright on the sacred altar and attempt to circulate the technique through a small cycle.
你回过神来的时候，已经来到了一间广阔的石室。石室四周摆放着整齐的功法誊录书简，正中则是一块刻满阵法的巨大石台。¤When you come to your senses, you have already arrived in a spacious stone room. The room is surrounded by neatly arranged recorded scripture books of techniques, and in the center is a huge stone platform engraved with an array. 
道友不必再多说了，你可是执意要离开此地？¤Do not need to say more, fellow daoist. Are you determined to leave this place?
虽然有心帮助，但你远不是元婴修士的敌手，只能道声抱歉自己逃命。¤Although I am willing to help, you are no match for a Nascent Soul cultivator. I can only apologize and run for my life.
一旁的管事念了几句口诀解开书柜的阵法，功法从中取出。¤The steward standing aside recited a few incantations to unlock the array guarding the bookshelf, then took out a technique from it.
小友，我尽力压制住他，约令他修为降至元婴初期，你可否助我一臂之力将这魔修制服？¤Dear young friend, I am doing my best to suppress him and make his cultivation drop to the early nascent soul stage. Can you assist me in subduing this demonic cultivator?
施术者若能停止阵法当然最好，退而求其次，毁掉阵法也可令受支配的修士清醒过来。¤If the practitioner can stop the array, that would be the best option. Alternatively, destroying the array can also bring the controlled cultivator back to consciousness.
说时迟那时快，岛主的元神似电光般钻进了他的眉心。连盛平尖啸一声，抱着头乱窜起来。¤Time passes in a flash, and the island lord's Yuan God drilled into his eyebrows like a flash of lightning. With a sharp cry, Lian Shengping ran around while holding his head.
你沿着台阶飞快地向上跑去，那魔修大概忙着与岛主的元神纠缠，并未追上前来。¤You quickly run up the stairs, and the demonic cultivator was probably busy entangling with the island lord's yuan god and did not catch up.
这阵法要如何毁去？¤How to destroy this formation?
这千年来我已尝尽苦果，愿以元神赌誓绝不再碰邪术！¤For the past thousand years, I have tasted the bitter fruits and vow with my Yuan God to never touch evil arts again!
道友可在圣坛上修炼融汇此功法，我会在门外为你护法。¤Fellow daoist can cultivate and merge this technique on the sacred altar. I will protect you outside the gate.
略显陈旧的石室内盈溢着充沛的灵气，你恍然大悟岛主方才所说的话的涵义。¤The slightly old stone chamber was filled with abundant spiritual energy, and you suddenly realized the meaning of what the island master had just said.
随着玉液的冲刷，阵法一角上的纹路很快变得浅淡起来。于此同时，门外传来一阵骚动。¤As the jade liquid washed over it, the lines on one corner of the array quickly became faint. At the same time, there was a commotion outside the door.
原来是你这臭{xiaozi}在此造次！本座定拿你炼个招魂幡以平胸中之愤！¤So it is you, this stinky {xiaozi} causing trouble here! I will definitely take you and refine a Soul Calming Flag to ease the anger in my chest!
我总觉得连家的功法有些怪异之处...每本都不似善类。¤I always feel that the techniques of the Lian family have some strange quirks... each one doesn't seem like a good one.
看来这千流岛连家确实古怪，先前遇到的千流岛修士也多冷漠之辈，难道正是因为修练了此功法？¤It seems that this Myriad Rivers Island is indeed peculiar. Many of the Myriad Rivers Island cultivators encountered earlier were quite indifferent. Could it be because they have cultivated this technique?
不知前辈何许人也？¤Do you know who the senior is?
连盛平躯体内的两个元神争执起来，你时而听见魔修的咆哮，时而听见岛主的低吟，样子诡怪至极。¤The two Yuan gods in Lian Shengping's body are in conflict, at times you hear the roar of demonic cultivation, at times you hear the Island Lord's low humming, and their appearances are extremely strange.
你趁着他们乱成一团的时候连忙逃出了木门，沿着台阶向上跑去。¤You took advantage of their chaos and quickly escaped through the wooden door, running up the stairs.
你依稀记得，魏无极似乎提起过此地圣坛的异样。你决定...¤You vaguely remember that Wei Wuji mentioned something peculiar about the Sacred Altar in this place. You decide...
你回忆着魏无极先前说过的话，决定到圣坛内部仔细探查一番。¤You recall the words previously spoken by Wei Wuji, and decide to thoroughly investigate the inside of the Sacred Altar.
唉，你啊！就由老夫来你祝你一臂之力。¤Ah, you! Let me lend you a helping hand.
（这两个笨蛋还不知道再也等不到天邪子了）¤(These two fools still don't know that they will never be able to wait for the Heavenly Devil again.)
据护法所说，黑心和那蛊真人大战一场，受了重伤，八成不会继续呆在此地，你我不过是以防万一罢了。¤According to the Guardian's words, Heixin and Na Gu Zhenren had a big battle and were seriously injured. They are likely not to stay here anymore, and we are just taking precautions.
你将神识发散开来。¤You spread out your divine sense.
咱们就在这里混混时间，毕竟那蛊真人也不是善茬，等护法真的抓住了他回来，咱就撤。¤We'll just hang around here for a while, that Gu Zhenren isn't a good person either, we'll wait until the Protector really catches him and brings him back, then we'll leave.
最好不会。¤It's best to not know how to do it.
此地有不少令人致幻的毒物，嘿嘿嘿...¤There are many hallucinogenic toxins here, hehehe...
怎讲？¤How to speak?
两人毫无防备的被你放倒。¤The two of them were taken down by you without any defense.
（这两个傻子，我啥都没问就都说出来了，这太巧了吧）¤(These two idiots just blurted out everything without me even asking. Isn't this too coincidental?)
你说，我们守在这里，那叛徒会不会回来？¤You say, shall we keep watch here, will the traitor come back?
你感受到，一股温和的神识之力注入你的识海。¤You feel a gentle power of soul sense injected into your sea of consciousness.
谁？\n¤Who?
唉，你这丹道修为就不要丢人现眼了。¤Ah, don't embarrass yourself with your skill in pill dao.
前方气息似有他人。¤There seems to be someone ahead.
你傻了不成，黑心乃是金丹高手，又偷了嗜血珠，要是真的遇到。就算是他身受重伤，你我纵使发出了信号，也断没有活路啊。¤Are you stupid? The black-hearted one is a master at the golden core level and has even stolen the bloodthirsty pearl. If we really encounter him, even if he is seriously wounded, even if we send a signal, we still wouldn't have a way out.
也对啊，但是这宁州乃是正道腹地，一直呆在这儿也不是个办法啊。¤That's true, but Ningzhou is the heartland of the righteous path. It's not a solution to stay here all the time.
一番动作非但没有生效，反倒让对面发现了你。¤The first action not only did not take effect, but also let the opponent discover you.
不错，然后你控制这药液，让其均匀地覆盖你的皮肤表面。雪玉骨参之中蕴含的极寒之气可护住你的经脉，减缓三阳玄火对你躯体的伤害。¤Not bad. Then, control this medicine liquid and let it evenly cover the surface of your skin. The extreme cold air contained in the frostbone ginseng can protect your meridians and slow down the damage of the three yang mysterious fire to your body.
你已准备就绪，和魏无极来到先前发现的地点寻找三阳玄火。¤You are ready and have come with Wei Wuji to the previously discovered location to search for the Mysterious Fire of the Three Suns.
哈哈哈，不错，我果然没看错人。¤Hahaha, not bad, I knew I didn't misjudge you.
不须多时，一抹跃动的金红火焰进入你的视野，看来那便是三阳玄火不错了。¤Within a short time, a flickering golden-red flame enters your line of sight. It appears to be the Three Yang Mysterious Fire.
魏无极神色惶恐，你心知他定是想起了什么，决定按他的吩咐去做。¤Wei Wuji's expression is fearful, and you know that he must have remembered something, so you decide to follow his orders.
剧烈的疼痛霎时传遍你的四肢百骸，你咬紧牙关，控制灵气朝三阳玄火扑去。时间一点一滴流逝，剧烈的疼痛消磨着你的意志，同异火的斗争却还在继续。¤Severe pain spread instantly through your whole body, and you grit your teeth, controlling your spiritual energy to attack the Three Yang Mysterious Fire. Time passes bit by bit, the severe pain wears down your will, but the struggle against the different fire still continues.
跳进去的一瞬你才发现，这根本不是什么岩浆，而是浓郁得近乎粘稠的火灵气！¤Leaping inside, you suddenly realize that this is not magma at all, but rather a thick, almost viscous fire spirit energy!
果然如魏无极所说，那三阳玄火入体便不受控制地横冲直撞，若不是雪玉骨参，恐怕你的经脉如今已被它窜成了筛子。¤As Wei Wuji said, the Three Yang Mysterious Fire runs rampant within the body once it enters and cannot be controlled. Without Frostbone Ginseng, I fear that your meridians would have been pierced like a sieve by now.
你们循着火灵气细溯其源，来到了一处隐蔽的地穴，其中炽红的岩浆缓缓流淌，想来三阳玄火正是在这岩浆中了。¤You followed the trail of the fire spirit energy and came to a hidden cave, where molten magma flowed slowly. It is likely that the mysterious three yang fire is in this magma.
快走，快走！退出这片地方我再和你说！¤Quickly go, quickly go! Exit this place and I will talk to you again!
不知过了多久，三阳玄火终于停止挣扎，任由你纳入丹田。你松了口气，昏死过去。¤After an unknown amount of time, the Three Yin Mysterious Fire finally stopped struggling and allowed you to absorb it into your Dan Tian. You let out a sigh of relief and passed out. 
不过此物无法庇护你的丹田，炼化之时烈火焚神，你必定要经历一番极其难耐的折磨，若无法坚守灵台清明即刻便会殒命于这霸道的火焰中，你可决定好了？¤However, this item cannot protect your dantian. When refining it, the fierce flames will burn your spirit and body. You will have to endure extremely unbearable torment. If you cannot hold on to your clear mind, you will die immediately in these overbearing flames. Have you made your decision?
你既已准备好雪玉骨参，与这三阳玄火斗争便可多上几分保障。¤If you're prepared with the Frostbone Ginseng, you'll have some extra assurance in fighting against the Three Yang Mysterious Fire.
你加快速度，上前将那异火攫入掌中，跃出火池开始炼化。¤You speed up and snatch the different fire into your palm, leaping out of the fire pool to begin refining it.
我决定好了，修仙本就风险诸多，怎可贪图一时安逸而放弃精进实力的机会？¤Okay, I've made a decision. Cultivation has always been a risky path, how can I give up the opportunity to improve my strength just for temporary comfort?
多年前我与那离火门前掌门斗法时似乎见他用过类似的功法...约莫取自于......¤Many years ago, when I fought against the master of the Fire Gate Sect in front of the sect's gate, it seemed like he used a similar technique... probably taken from...
洞窟里的这片土地似乎分外荒凉。裸露的砂石上寸草不生，寸寸土地呈皲裂的趋势向外延伸，你跋涉数十里，也难以觅得水灵气与木灵气，就连金灵气也十分稀薄。¤The land inside the cave seems unusually desolate. The exposed sand and stones have no grass growing on them, and the soil is cracking and extending outward. Even after traversing dozens of miles, it is difficult to find any spiritual water, wood, or even gold.
这气息似曾相识...待我仔细想想。¤This aura seems to be familiar...let me think carefully.
再睁眼时已是两月后，魏无极漂浮在离你不远的地方替你望风。幸好巫山荒凉无比，你所处的地方又是偏僻的角落，这两月竟无人前来。¤When I opened my eyes again, it was already two months later. Wei Wuji was floating not far from you, watching over you. Luckily Mount Wu is extremely desolate, and the place where you are located is a remote corner. No one has come here in these two months.
孰知这异火一进丹田便似蛟龙入海，一瞬间点燃了你丹田内浩瀚的气海！¤Who would have thought that as soon as this different fire entered the dantian, it was like a sea dragon entering the sea, instantly igniting the vast Qihai within your dantian!
你继续在这片荒芜的土地上探索，想要寻找造成这里火灵气与土灵气旺盛的原因。¤You continue to explore this barren land, attempting to find the reason behind the strong presence of fire and earth spirits here.
先前涂抹的雪玉骨参此时发挥了作用，丝丝寒凉之气缓解了火池的高温，你忍受着轻微的灼痛向灵力波动最强的地方游去。¤The previously applied frostbone ginseng is now taking effect, as its chilly aura relieves the high temperature of the fiery pool. Enduring a slight burning sensation, you swim towards the area with the strongest spiritual power, guided by Ling Xiang.
极阴冷火可护住你的经脉不受侵害，不过却无法庇护你的丹田，炼化之时烈火焚神，你必定要经历一番极其难耐的折磨，若无法坚守灵台清明即刻便会殒命于这霸道的火焰中，你可决定好了？¤Extreme yin cold fire can protect your meridians from harm, but it cannot protect your dantian. When refining, the fierce flames will burn the soul, and you will definitely experience extremely unbearable torture. If you cannot hold onto a clear mind, you will perish in the dominant flames immediately. Have you made your decision?
老头儿，你能看出什么门道吗？¤Old man, can you see any hidden meaning?
先前催动的极阴冷火此时发挥了作用，丝丝寒凉之气缓解了火池的高温，你忍受着轻微的灼痛向灵力波动最强的地方游去。¤The previously activated extreme yin cold fire now had an effect, gradually relieving the high temperature of the flame pool with its chilly and cool aura. Enduring slight burning pain, you swam towards the area with the strongest xiangling energy fluctuations.
你控制药液包裹身躯，毫不犹豫地投身岩浆中。¤You control the package of medicine that envelops your body, without hesitation throwing yourself into the magma.
我还没收集到雪玉骨参，也没修练过极阴冷火，还是做好准备再来吧。¤I haven't collected Frostbone Ginseng yet, nor have I practiced Extreme Yin Cold Fire. Let's make sure to prepare well before coming.
果然如魏无极所说，那三阳玄火入体便不受控制地横冲直撞，若不是极阴冷火，恐怕你的经脉如今已被它窜成了筛子。¤As Wei Wuji said, when the Three Yang Mysterious Fire enters the body, it will rampage uncontrollably. If not for the Extreme Yin Cold Fire, I'm afraid your meridians would have already been penetrated like a sieve.
仿佛有什么奇特的力量将周围的水灵气与木灵气吞噬殆尽一般，你对这股力量的源头心生好奇，也不知是否是什么天材地宝引动了这般异象。¤It seems like some peculiar power is devouring the surrounding water spirit and wood spirit, making you curious about the source of this power. You are unsure whether it was triggered by some precious natural treasure or not.
你控制极阴冷火包裹身躯，毫不犹豫地投身岩浆中。¤You control the extreme yin cold fire to wrap around your body and without hesitation, throw yourself into the lava.
为此物冒如此风险倒也不值，我们还是离开吧。¤Risking so much for this object is not worth it. Let's just leave.
也罢，也罢。¤Either way, either way.
习得：三阳玄火变¤Three Yang Xuanhuo Transformation.
你既已习得极阴冷火，与这三阳玄火斗争便可多上几分保障。¤You must have become proficient in the Extreme Yin Cold Fire. Engaging in combat with the Three Yang Mysterious Fire will provide you with a greater degree of protection.
雪玉骨参不可直接服用，你先以真火烧灼盛放药材的寒玉盒，将其凝练成药液。¤Frostbone ginseng cannot be directly consumed. First, use true fire to burn and purify the medicinal materials inside the cold jade box, then condense it into medicine liquid.
三阳玄火！¤Three Yangs Mysterious Fire.
强忍着拓宽经脉的苦楚，你以体内灵气缓慢地引导异火去往丹田的位置以便炼化。¤Enduring the pain of widening the meridians, you slowly guide the different fire with the spiritual energy in your body to the position of the dan tian for refining purposes.
怪事，我怎么闲来无事与离火门前掌门斗上法了？¤Strange, how did I end up challenging the master of the Fire Gate Sect for no reason at the front of their gates?
嗯？这地方...¤Umm? This place...
或许取自于...¤Perhaps taken from...
先想想关键的事，这功法取自于何物你可还没说呢！¤First, think about the key point. You haven't yet said where this technique comes from.
你简单的调息后便再次踏上了旅途。¤After you adjusted your breath easy, you set off on the journey again.
你遵循魏无极的指示用真火包裹住莹白的雪玉骨参，炽热的火焰逐渐将药材融化，最终在玉盒中化为一滩剔透的液体。¤You follow Wei Wuji's instructions and wrap the crystalline frostbone ginseng with true fire. The scorching flame gradually melts the medicinal material, finally turning into a clear liquid in the jade box.
我的修为不足，还是不要贸然行事了。¤My cultivation is insufficient, it's better not to act rashly.
你眼见魏无极面色一变，连元神都摇晃了几分。¤When you saw Wei Wuji's expression change, even his Yuan God shook slightly.
是否前往古位面？{w}{w=0.5}¤Will you go to the ancient dimension?{w}{w=0.5}
你刚踏出没几步，突然便有一股巨力裹挟着你向远处飞去。¤You had just taken a few steps when suddenly a tremendous force carried you flying towards the distance.
你艰难地在时空乱流间寻找前进的道路，突然有一物从你身边坠落。你下意识地伸手将其捞住，竟是一只通体碧绿的储物袋，其上以精细的金线绣出“竹”的字样。¤embroidered on it in fine golden thread.
你四下环视，想要找出储物袋的主人。只见远方似是竹山宗长老的人正在混乱的时空中穿梭而去，从背影看来或许是竹山宗的碧宵道人...¤You looked around to find the owner of the storage pouch. In the distance, it seemed that the Bamboo Mountain Sect Elder was traversing through a chaotic space-time. From the back, it might be the Blue Night Daoist of the Bamboo Mountain Sect...
你把储物袋揣进怀中，打算日后相见时再将其物归原主。¤You tucked the storage pouch into your embrace, intending to return its contents to its rightful owner when you next meet.
反正碧宵长老也不知道这东西掉到哪里了，如此这般也算是缘分，我就不客气地收下了。¤Anyway, Elder Bixiao doesn't know where this thing fell, and since it's fate, I'll just take it without any hesitation.
这...这是？¤What is this?
嗯...这看起来可不像普通的陨母...莫非这是...{color=#d0380a}太玄晶{/color}！？¤Hmm... this doesn't look like a normal meteorite mother... could it be... {color=#d0380a}great arcane crystal{/color}!?
没想到竟能在这乱流之中找到此等宝物...不过若非我体道修为大成，即便认出了这太玄晶恐怕也难以脱离乱流的裹挟来到此地...¤I never thought I could find such a treasure in this chaotic current... But if my body dao cultivation was not at its peak, even if I recognized this great arcane crystal, it would be difficult to break free from the entanglement of the chaotic current and come to this place...
哈哈哈，机缘总是留给有准备之人的。小心收好此物吧，在宁州可找不到这般品质的炼器材料。¤Hahaha, opportunity always favors the prepared. Be careful and keep this thing well, you won't find such high-quality refining materials in Ningzhou.
机会难得，我们多多留意一番，看能不能多找到一些这样的材料。¤Opportunities like this are rare, so let's pay close attention and see if we can find more materials like this.
运气不错，这陨母可是一种极为稀有的炼器材料，据说只有在这样的空间裂隙中才比较容易找到。¤The luck is good, this meteorite mother is an extremely rare refining material, it is said that it is relatively easy to find only in such space rifts.
这是...？¤What is this?
乱流裹挟着一块其貌不扬的精石从你附近飞过，你下意识地抓了一块到手里，只觉得手心一丝凉意传来，让你不经打了个寒颤。¤A turbulent current carries with it a mediocre looking gemstone that flies past you. You instinctively grab onto it and feel a slight chill in your palm, causing you to shudder involuntarily.
是否前往古原城？{w}{w=0.5}¤Would you like to go to Gu Yuan City? {w}{w=0.5}
你堪堪避开，却只见一人像野兽般横冲直撞着向你扑了过来！¤You barely managed to avoid it, but you saw a person charging towards you like a wild beast!
{vpunch=10,0.5}轰！！¤Boom!!
想到这一点，你仔细地观察着洞内灵气的走向，发现它们正朝着更深的地方汇聚。¤Upon thinking about this, you carefully observe the direction of the spiritual energy flow within the cave and discover that it is converging towards deeper areas.
一踏入此地，灼热的气浪席卷而来。温度极高的熔岩池不停地冒着气泡，赤红火光燃亮整个洞窟。巨大的石钟乳和石笋遍布溶洞，表面闪烁着一圈圈红色的光芒，就连洞内的岩石都呈出绚烂的金红色。¤Upon stepping into this place, scorching waves of heat swept over. The extremely high temperature of the magma pool continuously emitted bubbles, and the bright red flames illuminated the entire cave. Large stalactites and stalagmites were scattered throughout the cave, their surfaces shimmering with circles of red light, even the rocks inside the cave glowed brilliantly in a golden-red color.
你被这壮阔的奇观所惊艳，不禁停下了前进的脚步。¤You were stunned by this magnificent spectacle and couldn't help but stop your steps forward.
既有奇观...那应当也有奇物伴生才对！¤If there are such spectacles...there should also be strange objects accompanying them!
好热...！¤It's so hot...!
你手脚利落地取走一半赤火元铜精，离开了溶洞。¤You deftly take away half of the Red Fire Yuan Copper Essence with your hands and legs, and leave the cave.
你面露喜色，赤火元铜精乃是极为难得的矿石，虽与火铜同源，但赤火元铜精只在地火中才有几率孕育。¤You have a happy expression on your face. Red Fire Yuan Copper Essence is an extremely rare ore, although it shares the same origin with Fire Copper, Red Fire Yuan Copper Essence can only be bred with a low chance in Earthfire.
即便用不上，以此物同其他修士换取所求的材料也是绝佳的选择。¤Even if it is not needed, trading this item for desired materials with other cultivators is an excellent choice.
那金属看起来与火铜相似，但颜色却不同于火铜污浊的暗红，而是如火般亮眼的鲜红。¤The metal looks similar to fire copper, but its color is not the same as the murky dark red of fire copper, instead, it is a bright red like fire.
难道这是...赤火元铜精！¤Could it be... Red Fire Yuan Copper Essence!
顶着炽灼的热浪来到洞窟深处，一簇奇异的金属吸引了你的目光。¤You arrived at the depths of a cave, with scorching heat on your face. A cluster of strange metals caught your eye.
你将其收入密闭的木盒中，转身离开了此地。¤You placed it into the airtight wooden box and turned around to leave this place.
曾经听说有种名为炼心芝的五品草药，其气味诡异无比，可令闻者沉迷幻象无法自拔，或许正是此草。¤Once heard that there is a fifth grade herb called Heartrend Shroom, which has an extremely bizarre aroma and can make the person who smells it fall into an irresistible illusion. Perhaps this is the herb referred to.
最终，你在一块横倒在丛林的朽木背面发现了一朵灵芝状的灵草，那令人产生幻觉的香气正是从此草中散出。¤Finally, on the back of a rotten log lying horizontally in the jungle, you discovered a lingzhi-shaped spiritual grass. The hallucinogenic aroma emanated from this grass.
摆脱幻象后，你重新在此地追寻着香气的源头。¤After getting rid of the illusion, you trace back the source of the fragrance in this place.
你很快便意识到这是受到那香气影响产生的幻觉，这种程度的幻象对与心性坚定的你并没有太大的影响。¤You soon realize that this is an illusion caused by the influence of that fragrance, and this level of illusion does not have much impact on you, who have a strong mentality.
你这{xiaozi}，心性还是不够坚定啊...¤You little brat, your temperament still isn't firm enough...
眼前的景象仿佛有着奇特的吸引力，你不可自拔地徜徉烂漫的花海中。陡然间猛烈的刺痛从你识海中扩散开来，你甩了甩头摆脱那股令人不适的晕眩感，却发现面前哪有什么盛放的鲜花，只是一片枯腐的树木罢了！¤The scene before your eyes seems to have a strange gravitational pull, and you can't help but wander in the colorful sea of ​​flowers. Suddenly, a sharp pain spreads from your sea of ​​consciousness. You shook your head to get rid of the uncomfortable dizziness, only to find that there were no blooming flowers in front of you, only a forest of withered trees!
那芬芳的气味令你心驰神远，一瞬间眼前的山洞似乎变得迷蒙起来，心神微动间此处已化作绚烂的花海。¤The fragrant scent makes your heart wander off, and in an instant, the cave in front of you seems to become hazy. With a slight movement of your mind, this place has turned into a beautiful flower sea.
醉人的馥郁香气侵袭了你的感官，清润的幽香将你这几天来的疲累一扫而净。¤The intoxicating fragrance invaded your senses, and the refreshing and fragrant scent swept away the fatigue of the past few days.
不知道是何物在此制造幻境...¤I don't know what is creating this illusionary realm here...
你有些恼怒地瞪向古剑，不曾想锋利可鉴的剑锋上竟映出一道虚晃的人影！心神大惊间你向侧方扑去，术法的光芒与你擦身而过，将石壁轰出深深的裂痕。{vpunch=10,0.5}¤You glared angrily at the ancient sword, but to your surprise, a faint shadow appeared on its sharp edge! Startled, you quickly dodged to the side, narrowly avoiding the blast of magical energy that left deep cracks on the stone wall as it passed by you. {vpunch=10,0.5}
不错，有两下子，那就看看这下你还有没有那么幸运能躲过去！¤Not bad, you have some skills. Let's see if you're still lucky enough to dodge this one!
背后的古剑沉默着，魏无极一反常态地没有及时解答你的问题。¤The ancient sword behind him remained silent as Wei Wuji, contrary to his usual self, did not respond to your question in a timely manner.
你飞速地在脑海里搜索着相关的记忆，迫切地想要找出血符的用途，但对于这些歪门邪道的符箓你知之甚少，一时也想不出这东西的用途。¤You quickly search in your mind for related memories and urgently try to figure out the use of the blood symbol. However, you know little about these crooked and evil symbols and can't think of the purpose of this thing for a while.
血煞符！¤Blood Killing Talisman!
你轻身提气，蹑手蹑脚地跟了上去，昏暗的石道里你紧盯着前方晃动不停的黑色影子。那人影时不时地弯下腰去，似乎依旧在沿途布置以鲜血绘成的符箓。¤You quietly lifted your body and followed closely, staring intently at the constantly swaying black shadow ahead in the dim stone pathway. The silhouette occasionally bent over, seemingly still setting up talismans drawn in blood along the way.
魏老，你能看出这东西什么来路吗？¤Old Wei, can you tell where this thing comes from?
潜伏之际本就精神紧张，突如其来的一声大喝令你变貌失色，险些暴露行踪。¤At the moment of lurking, the spirit was already tense. Suddenly, a loud shout made you change your appearance, almost exposing your whereabouts.
你隐隐察觉到一丝危险的气息，或许之后遇到化尘教之人再徐徐图之吧。¤You vaguely perceive a hint of danger, perhaps you should proceed cautiously if you encounter someone from the Shifting Sand Sect in the future.
前方拐角处的人影似乎已经消失，你对此事感到蹊跷，决定跟上前一探究竟。¤The person's silhouette at the turn ahead seems to have disappeared. You find this strange and decide to follow up and investigate.
你隐隐察觉到一丝阴谋的气息，还是待离开宁州古迹后再徐徐图之吧。¤You faintly perceive a sense of conspiracy, perhaps it's better to carefully plan after leaving the ancient ruins of Ning Province.
不知此人实力如何，你决定......¤I don't know how strong this person is, you decide...
你悄无声息地跟在他身后，在他走入下一个拐角时屈身上前，观察他留在路边的印记。¤You silently followed behind him, and as he turned into the next corner, you bent down and observed the mark he left by the roadside.
以鲜血描绘的符箓依旧透着鲜艳的色彩，边缘甚至还有血痕缓缓向下流去，看来并非是他驻存的血液。¤The rune depicted with blood still shines with bright colors, and even has bloodstains slowly flowing down its edges, indicating that it is not the blood of the person who created it.
若是新鲜的血液...这位化尘教弟子怕是刚到宁州古迹便残害同门取其血液，不似什么善类。¤If it is fresh blood...this Shifting Sand Sect disciple is probably just arrived at the ancient ruins of Ningzhou and has harmed his own sect disciples to obtain their blood, unlike a good person. 
你运起遁术，几下追上前方修士的脚步。只见另一位化尘教修士沿途布置着以血刻画的符箓，行迹十分诡异。¤You activate your mobility technique and quickly catch up to the footsteps of the cultivator ahead. Along the way, you notice another cultivator from the Shifting Sand Sect laying down blood-drawn talismans, their movements shrouded in mystery.
行至道路深处，忽见一位化尘教弟子尸横路边，而前方一抹土黄色衣角闪过。¤As they walked deep into the road, they suddenly saw a Shifting Sand Sect Disciple's corpse lying beside the road, and ahead a flash of dust yellow clothes swept by.
你认为事出反常必有妖，还是不要太过好奇为妙。¤Do you believe that abnormal occurrences indicate the presence of supernatural beings, or is it better not to be too curious?
你追寻着微弱的香气，那味道隐隐地吸引你向南边走去。¤You follow the faint fragrance, which subtly attracts you to walk towards the south.
奇异的香味吸引着你，那股香气的源头究竟是...？¤The peculiar fragrance attracts you, but what exactly is the source of that aroma?
恐怕附近的人也都注意到了，但能够解开一切谜团的钥匙或许就在这里，小心行事吧。¤Perhaps people nearby have also noticed, but the key to solve all mysteries may be here. Be careful.
没想到竟引来如此天地异象...那里到底有什么东西？¤Unexpectedly, it had caused such a great and abnormal phenomenon in the world... What exactly is there in that place?
看，在那里。¤Look, over there.
而魏无极先前凝视的地方，一道绚烂无比的恢弘光柱冲天而起，已经安定下来的铁剑也重新发出了微弱的嗡鸣。¤While Wei Wuji gazed ahead, an immensely dazzling and magnificent pillar of light shot up into the sky from where he was looking, and the iron sword that had already stabilized emitted a faint buzz once more.
你来不及过多思索，将体内的灵气一股脑输进朴素无华的剑身里。随着灵气的注入，铁剑震动渐弱，逐渐归于平静。¤Without much thought, you quickly infused all of your spiritual energy into the plain and unadorned sword. As the spiritual energy flowed in, the iron sword's vibrations gradually weakened and returned to calmness.
快！向剑里注入灵气！¤Quick! Inject spiritual energy into the sword!
很快地，他将视线转回铁剑，双手掐指成诀，飞速地吟念着你听不懂的咒语。¤Quickly, he turned his gaze back to the iron sword, his hands formed a seal by pinching his fingers, and he rapidly chanted an incantation that you could not understand.
伴随着嗡嗡的剑吟声，魏无极的身形逐渐显现。他的目光落向远处的平地，仿佛那里有什么正要发生似的。¤Along with the buzzing sound of the sword chant, Wei Wuji gradually appears. His gaze falls on the flat ground in the distance, as if something is about to happen there.
你一靠近此地，背后的铁剑便像是受到什么共鸣般，剧烈地震动起来。¤As soon as you approach this place, the iron sword behind you trembles violently as if resonating with something.
在这宁州古迹中你并不打算多管闲事，不管那人是谁，都与你没关系。¤In this ancient ruin of Ning Province, you do not intend to meddle, regardless of whoever that person is, it has nothing to do with you.
你轻身提气，在断壁残垣的遮掩下向交谈处靠拢。那几人已因言语不和大打出手，在纷乱的神通中，你依稀辨别出其中二位联手攻击的修士正是当年你在九嶷山所遇的黑心老人。¤You use light body technique to quickly approach the conversation area while hiding behind the ruins. Several people are already fighting using their divine skills due to a disagreement in their conversation. Amongst them, you can vaguely tell that two cultivators are working together to strike down their opponents. These two cultivators were the same old man darkheart you met at Jiuyi Mountain years ago.
哼，若我还是以前的修为，还轮得到你等小儿在我面前放肆？¤Hmph, if I still had my previous cultivation, would you little children dare to be so presumptuous in front of me?
昔日的大护法也不过如此，接招吧！¤Former guardian was nothing impressive, come and attack me!
一处破损的民宅内隐隐传来交谈的声音，你屏息倾听片刻，只觉其中一人嗓音听来有些许熟悉之感。你决定...¤Inside a damaged residential building, there was faint chatter that can be heard. You held your breath and listened for a moment and felt a slight sense of familiarity in the voice of one of the people. You made a decision...
凭你现在的修为，你以为能拿我二人如何！还是束手就擒交出嗜血珠吧，哈哈！¤With your current cultivation, do you think you can do anything to the two of us? Either surrender and hand over the Bloodthirsty Bead, or resign yourself to being caught, haha!
我左你右，速战速决。¤I go left, you go right. Let's settle this quickly.
不错，既然有这个缘分，我再帮你一次又如何。¤Good, since we have this fate, how about I help you again?
几位道友打得倒是热闹，也算我一个怎么样？¤Several fellow daoists are fighting with such enthusiasm, can I join in?
竟然是你！¤Unexpectedly, it's you!
那三人之战愈演愈烈，你在一旁静静等待他们灵气耗尽之时。但你的如意算盘没过多久便落了空，与黑心老人对立的二人并不像表面看来那么简单。¤The battle between the three people became more and more intense, and you waited quietly on the side for their spiritual energy to be exhausted. However, your plan was to no avail after a short time, as the two who opposed the old man Darkheart were not as simple as they seemed on the surface.
一阵简短而诡秘的诵唱后，那二人的法宝竟发出璀璨的血光，逐渐合为一柄巨大的重剑。宽厚的剑刃横扫而下，似黄浪般的尘土翻涌而起。待烟尘弥散后，那两位修士与黑心老人一同消失在了你的视野中。¤After a short and mysterious recitation, the artifacts of the two individuals emitted a dazzling blood light, gradually merging into a huge heavy sword. The thick blade swept down, causing a wave of dust to rise like a yellow wave. After the smoke and dust cleared, the two cultivators and the Old Man Darkheart disappeared from your sight together.
居然是这老头儿...依我看这两人在他手中也讨不了什么好，不如我黄雀在后，待他们力竭之时将其一网打尽！¤It's actually this old man... In my opinion, these two people won't be able to get any good results from him, it's better for me, the yellow sparrow, to wait behind and catch them all when they are exhausted!
当年之事也算是互惠互利，如今在这宁州古迹中相逢，也算是一种缘分。¤The events of the past could be considered mutually beneficial, and now meeting in these Ningzhou ancient ruins can also be considered a kind of fate.
言罢，倪旭欣伸手便去推那灯台。沉重的机栝运动声过后，你二人脚下的地面突然向下沉去。意识到危机的你瞬时反应过来，想要以遁术腾空而起。¤After speaking, Ni Xuxin reached out to push the lampstand. After the heavy machinery's movement sounded, the ground under your feet suddenly sank down. You quickly realized the danger and attempted to use mobility to leap into the air.
但洞口处传来的吸力令你无法逃离，你猛地想起宁州古迹为空间错乱之地，恐怕机关通往的另一方早就发生异变...此次探险，实在不知是福是祸。¤But the suction from the cave entrance prevented you from escaping. You suddenly remembered that the ancient ruins of Ning Province were a place of spatial disorder, and the mechanism leading to the other side might have already undergone a mutation... This exploration may bring fortune or disaster, and you are unsure which it will be.
这灯台似乎有些奇怪，大抵是居住在古原城的前人为宅邸设下的机关，不知道地图所指示的是否就是这个。¤The lighthouse seems a bit strange, probably a mechanism set up by the predecessors who lived in Gu Yuan City as a mansion, I don't know if this is what the map is referring to.
定是如此！说不定这机关背后便藏着上古时期的宝物！¤It must be so! Perhaps there are ancient treasures hidden behind this mechanism!
怎么了，{FirstName}{xiongdi}有何发现？¤What's wrong, {FirstName}, what did you discover, {xiongdi}?
你二人搜寻许久也未有收获，正准备放弃之时，你隐约瞥见废墟里依旧挺立的灯台。¤You and your companion have searched for a long time without any reward. Just as you are about to give up, you vaguely catch a glimpse of the lighthouse that still stands in the ruins.
周围的物品均受当年战斗波及，即使侥幸不曾受损，也绝不会岿然不动地立在原地。你有些好奇地走上前去轻轻推动灯台，果然如你所想，这灯台早被固定在此处。¤All the surrounding items were affected by the battle that happened years ago. Even if they were lucky enough to not be damaged, they wouldn't be standing still in their original positions. You walked forward curiously and gently pushed the lighthouse, and as expected, it was firmly fixed in place.
既然如此，我们也只能分头找找此地的可疑之处了。¤Since that's the case, we can only split up and look for suspicious areas here.
你与倪旭欣分头行动，开始寻找附近疑似机关或暗道入口的地方。但宁州古迹本就为上古大城，区域内有着数量可观的残破建筑，想要找到线索相当不易。¤You and Ni Xuxin split up to search for nearby suspected mechanical or secret passage entrances. However, the ancient ruins of Ning Province are a large, prehistoric city with a considerable number of dilapidated buildings, making it quite difficult to find clues.
我只看是个与宝图相仿的东西便高价收来了...那修士也不曾告知此处究竟有甚么奥秘......¤I only saw something similar to a treasure map and bought it at a high price... the cultivator did not inform me of any secrets here...
你们沿着标记一路小心前行。¤You follow the markings carefully as you move forward.
倪兄可知此地埋藏了何种宝物？¤Brother Ni, do you know what kind of treasure is buried here?
倪旭欣有些羞赧地挠了挠头，露出一副十分懊悔的模样来。¤Ni Xuxin scratched his head somewhat shyly, revealing a very regretful expression.
从地图绘制的路线来看，似乎就是这里了。¤From the route drawn on the map, it seems that this is the place.
哈哈，多年未见倪兄热衷冒险的爱好还是未曾改变。也罢，那我便再陪倪兄走上一遭。¤The usage of certain keywords in this sentence are
无碍无碍，那我便自己前去一探究竟！¤No problem, no problem, then I will go find out what's going on by myself!
我此次前来还有要事在身，怕是不能与你一同前往此处，望倪兄海涵。¤I have important matters to attend to this time, so I'm afraid I cannot go with you to this place. I hope Brother Ni can understand.
这种粗制滥造的地图令你疑心大作，想起之前遭遇的种种事件，你决定...¤This rough-crafted map makes you suspicious, recalling various events you encountered before. You decide...
果然是你，{FirstName}{LastName}{xiongdi}！¤It's really you, {FirstName}{LastName}{xiongdi}!
方才在此处我远远地看过来就觉得像你，才冒昧喊声留步，如此看来我俩果然缘分匪浅！¤Just a moment ago, I saw you from afar and thought it was you. I took the liberty of calling out to you to stay a while. From this perspective, it seems that we do have a deep connection after all.
不瞒{xiongdi}，我为此次古迹探险做了许多准备，这地图便是前日所获之物。¤Don't hide it from you, {xiongdi}, I have made a lot of preparations for this ancient site exploration, and this map is what I obtained the other day.
你接过倪旭欣递来的地图，劣质青玉制成的玉简上歪歪斜斜地刻着路线，道路尽头标注的暗红色X印记肮脏无比，勉强能看出似乎是用了朱笔之类的东西绘制而成。¤You take the map handed to you by Ni Xuxin, the road route is engraved crookedly on a jade slip made of poor-quality green jade, and the dark red X mark at the end of the road is extremely dirty and barely discernible as if it was drawn with a cinnabar brush or something similar.
你有些好奇倪旭欣喊住你的原因，于是慢下脚步等待他追上来。¤You are curious about the reason why Ni Xuxin called you, so you slow down and wait for him to catch up.
你不太关心声音的主人出于什么原因让你留步，只希望能在他认出你前离开此地。¤You don't really care why the owner of the voice asked you to stop, you just hope to leave this place before he recognizes you.
你听到身后传来有些熟悉的声音，于是...¤You heard some familiar sounds from behind, so...
道友留步！¤Fellow Daoist, please stay!
难道这就是古籍中提到的阴阳黄泉花...？¤Is this the flower of samsara mentioned in ancient literature...?
这是...重元换血草！¤This is... the flower of undeath!
一株鲜红色的仙草在石缝中迎风摇曳。¤A fresh red fairy grass sways in the wind among the rocks.
一座破败的多宝塔，没什么值得在意的地方。¤A dilapidated Pagoda, nothing worth taking note of.
你与百里奇在此唏嘘一番错失宝物的遗憾后分道扬镳，去追寻各自的机缘。¤You and Baili Qi lamented your loss of treasures here and then went your separate ways to pursue your own opportunities.
你回忆起许久前在御剑门深处遇见的那柄魔剑，那气息与此处残留的煞气竟有几分相似。¤You recall the demon sword you encountered long ago in the depths of the Imperial Sword Sect, its aura bearing some resemblance to the residual malevolent energy here.
说来巧合，那法宝也是柄飞剑，不知此处阵法中凶戾的剑灵是否和这被取走的剑有所关系。¤Coincidentally, that artifact is also a flying sword. I don't know if the ferocious sword spirit in this array has any connection to the stolen sword.
我也不曾见过，想不到这破塔中竟还封印着此等奇物，若有机会真想见识一下。¤I have never seen it before, I never thought that such a strange thing would be sealed in this broken tower. If I have the chance, I really want to see it for myself.
你们追寻煞气的源头，却只发现了一处残损的阵法。阵法中一处狭长剑型的凹陷如今已空空如也，只有浓烈的煞气依旧残存其中。¤You are pursuing the source of the sinister energy, but only discovered a damaged array. Within the array, a narrow sword-shaped indentation is now empty, with only strong sinister energy remaining in it.
从形状看来，这阵法以前或许封印着某把灵剑，只是不知何等奇物竟能留下如此亘久不散的煞气......¤From its shape, this array may have previously sealed a spiritual sword, but it is unknown what kind of strange object could leave such a lingering aura...
倒是稀奇，我还未曾见过满溢煞气的法宝。¤It's rare that I've never seen a magic artifact overflowing with sinister energy.
我倒是有缘见识过与之相似的法宝......¤I have indeed had the fortune of encountering a similar artifact before…
沿着坑坑洼洼的石阶登上阁楼，一股强烈的煞气袭面而来。¤Upon climbing the stone stairs full of pits and bumps to the attic, a strong aura of evil energy hits the face. 
你们合力破除了剑阵，塔的最高层看起来愈发破旧，四处都是散落的砖石碎块。¤You have all worked together to break the sword array, and the top level of the tower now looks even more decrepit, with scattered bricks and debris everywhere.
你拜别百里奇，决心去探索宁州古迹其他的地方。¤You bid farewell to Baili Qi and determined to explore other parts of Ning Province ancient ruins. 
待体悟过后，百里奇决意把阵法破掉，去更高的地方一探究竟。你对于塔的上层...{w}{w=0.5}¤After contemplating, Baili Qi decided to break the array and explore further up. As for the upper level of the tower... {w}{w=0.5} 
你隐隐感到剑灵中传来熟悉的气息，而这气息的源头也许正是你背上的那柄铁剑。¤You vaguely sense a familiar aura emanating from the sword spirit, and perhaps the source of this aura is the iron sword on your back.
你对体修之道没什么兴趣，婉言拒绝了百里奇的邀约，只是在一旁观战片刻。¤You are not interested in the path of body cultivation and politely declined Baili Qi's invitation, only watching the battle from the side for a moment.
你飞身入阵，同百里奇一齐在飞剑的攻势下体悟道意。演练片刻后，你感到自己的体道有所提升。同时，你隐隐感到剑灵中传来熟悉的气息，而这气息的源头也许正是你背上的那柄铁剑。¤You jumped into the formation and with Baili Qi, you both comprehended the dao intent under the attack of the flying swords. After a moment of practice, you feel that your body dao has improved. At the same time, you vaguely feel a familiar breath coming from the sword spirit, and the source of this breath may be the iron sword on your back.
你决定......{w}{w=0.5}¤You decide...{w}{w=0.5}
察觉到你的气息，那位修士转过身来，此人正是你在宁州的旧识——百里奇。。¤Upon sensing your aura, the cultivator turned around, and this person was none other than your acquaintance from Ningzhou Baili Qi.
百里兄明明有破阵的实力，为何还要与这飞剑过多纠缠？¤Brother Baili clearly has the ability to break formation, so why is he still entangled with this flying sword?
哈哈哈哈，{FirstName}{xiongdi}有所不知，我准备借助此地的剑阵磨炼自己的体术。若{FirstName}{xiongdi}有兴趣，倒可以入阵一起推演一番！¤Hahaha, {FirstName} {xiongdi}, you are not aware, but I plan to use the sword array here to hone my physical skills. If {FirstName} {xiongdi} are interested, you can join me in the array and explore it together!
哈哈哈哈，道友有所不知，我准备借助此地的剑阵磨炼自己的体术。若你有兴趣，倒可以入阵一起推演一番！¤Hahaha, fellow daoist may not know, I am planning to use the sword array here to hone my physical skills. If you are interested, you can join me in the array to analyze and practice together!
百里道友明明有破阵的实力，为何还要与这飞剑过多纠缠？¤Why does Baili Fellow Daoist continue to be entangled with this flying sword, even though he clearly has the power to break formation?
你观战片刻，隐隐感到剑灵中传来熟悉的气息，而这气息的源头也许正是你背上的那柄铁剑。¤After watching for a moment, you faintly sense a familiar aura emanating from the Sword Spirit, and perhaps the source of this aura is the iron sword on your back.
察觉到你的气息，那位修士转过身来，冷冷地注视着你。你看清他的面容，此人正是宁州赫赫有名的体修——百里奇。似乎是感觉到你并没有恶意，他又沉浸到与剑灵交手的快意中。¤As you sensed his presence, the cultivator turned around and stared at you coldly. After you saw his face, you realized that he was the famous body cultivator from Ningzhou, Baili Qi. Sensing that you meant no harm, he returned to the exhilarating battle with his sword spirit.
燥动的血色剑芒在阵法中跳跃回转，而阵法中央似乎有位修士正徒手与这些飞剑交战。¤The agitated blood-colored sword qi jumps and rotates within the formation, while a cultivator in the center of the formation seems to be fighting these flying swords barehanded. 
一踏入此塔，你便听闻塔上传来一阵阵低沉的剑鸣。你踏上有些破败的石梯，一步一步朝着更高层走去。¤As soon as you step into this tower, you hear a low and deep sword hum coming from the tower. You walk up the slightly dilapidated stone steps, step by step, towards the higher levels.
这塔如此破败，想来应该也没什么好东西了。¤This tower is so dilapidated, there shouldn't be anything good inside. 
并不算高的多宝塔，经历正魔大战的洗礼后愈发破败，可以看到其上破损的屋檐以及塌陷的墙体。{w}{w=0.5}¤The Multitower, which is not considered particularly tall, became even more dilapidated after enduring the ravages of the war between the righteous and the demonic. The damaged eaves and collapsed walls on it can be seen clearly. {w}{w=0.5}
你的神识敏锐地捕捉到一丝微弱的波动...这感觉如此微弱，若非你神识修为极深，恐怕也难以发现。¤Your soul sense keenly detected a faint ripple... This feeling is so weak that it would be difficult to detect without a profound cultivation in soul sense.
这莫非便是传闻中提到的那块记录着化神秘术《意守法》的石碑...¤Is this perhaps the stone tablet mentioned in the rumours that records the Deity Transformation Secret Art 《Guardianship of the Will》...
这石碑是...？¤What is this stone monument?
你顺着神识感应的方向小心探索，穿过原本看似死路的残垣断壁，映入眼帘的竟是一块巨大的石碑！¤Carefully explore the direction sensed by your soul sense, passing through what initially appears to be a dead end of rubble and broken walls, until you come across a huge stone monument!
你尝试阅读石碑上的文字...或许叫图案更为合适，但完全无法看懂上面都写了些什么。¤You try to read the words on the stone monument... or perhaps it is more appropriate to call it a pattern, but you completely cannot understand what is written on it.
你的神识刚一接触石碑，魂魄深处一阵令你颤栗的剧痛传来，随即无数的影像便开始倒灌入你的识海之中。¤Your soul sense just touched the stone tablet when a shuddering pain radiated from the depths of your soul, following which countless images began to pour into your mind.
你尝试观察这些出现在你识海之中的影像，但来自魂魄深处的疼痛却也不断加深。好在你的心境早已达到了{color=#d0380a}物我合一{/color}的境界，任何外在苦痛都无法动摇你的心神。¤You attempt to observe the images appearing in your sea of consciousness, but the pain from the depths of your soul only grows stronger. Fortunately, your mental state has long reached the level of unity of self and object, and no external pain can shake your mind.
慢慢的，你排除了一切杂念，将意念沉于丹田之中，识海之中的影像也逐渐清晰起来...¤Slowly, you eliminate all distractions and sink your thoughts into your dantian, and the image in your sea of consciousness gradually becomes clearer...
习得{color=#d0380a}《意守法》{/color}¤Acquired {color=#d0380a}《Guardianship of the Will》{/color}
呼...这石碑虽说立就于古原城中央，但若是放在万年前，也不知道要付出怎样的代价才能获得这样感悟的机会。¤Sigh... Although this stone tablet is standing in the center of Gu Yuan City, if it were placed ten thousand years ago, I don't know what kind of price one would have to pay to gain such an opportunity for enlightenment.
你尝试观察这些出现在你识海之中的影像，但不断加剧的痛苦令你心神动摇，若是再继续保持这种状态，恐怕会落得一个魂飞魄散的下场！¤You try to observe the images appearing in your sea of consciousness, but the intensifying pain shakes your mind. If you keep this state, you will probably end up in a scattered soul.
你连忙将神识从石碑上抽离，魂魄深处传来的剧痛与识海中的影像也随之消散。你大口大口的喘着粗气，庆幸自己逃过一劫...¤You quickly withdrew your soul sense from the stone tablet, and the intense pain from deep within your soul and the shadows in your mind dissipated as well. You gasped for breath, grateful that you had escaped a disaster...
你强忍剧痛，坚持外放神识，如同弓弦般紧绷的神念终于断裂。你眼前一黑，终于昏死过去...¤You endured the intense pain and persisted in releasing your soul sense. The tightly stretched divine consciousness finally broke like a bowstring. Your vision went black and you finally passed out...
心境+50，神识-1¤Mental state +50, soul sense -1.
还是不要再回来了。¤Better not come back.
进去看看吧。据我所知，即便未能通过试炼，也只会被传送回殿外，倒是不会有生命危险。¤Go in and take a look. As far as I know, even if you can't pass the trial, you will only be sent back outside the hall, there is no danger to life.
看来你应该是在别的地方遇到了什么意外，最后导致变成了现在这样。¤It seems that you had an accident somewhere else, which ultimately resulted in your current state.
我当年也对这登仙殿有关的传闻做了不少调查。只是最后不知发生了什么事，并未曾达到此地。¤I have also investigated many rumors related to the Hall of Immortal Ascension in the past. However, I did not reach this place in the end, and I don't know what happened.
大部分冒险进入古迹之人都是冲着这登仙殿来的，只是这数千年来也未曾听闻有谁成功获得过这份传承。¤Most adventurers who enter ancient ruins are after the Hall of Immortal Ascension, but it has never been heard of anyone successfully gaining this inheritance for thousands of years.
据说这登仙殿是某位飞升仙界的大能所筑，他将自己的功法传承留在这殿内。只要能通过他留下的试炼，就能得到这份传承。¤It is said that this Hall of Immortal Ascension was built by a powerful being who ascended to the World of Cultivators, and he left his technique inheritance in this hall. As long as one can pass the trials he left behind, they can obtain this inheritance.
你千年前也来过这登仙殿？¤Are you also here at the Hall of Immortal Ascension a thousand years ago?
这古原城在万年前可称得上是宁州第一大城，吸引无数的修真者来到此地，靠的就是这登仙殿。¤This Gu Yuan City could be called the number one city in Ningzhou ten thousand years ago, attracting countless cultivators to come here, relying on this Hall of Immortal Ascension.
登仙殿...好气派的名字，这里原本会是做什么的？¤The Hall of Immortal Ascension... what a grand name. What was this place originally intended for?
那方正的牌匾并未因战争或时间的消磨黯淡失色，依旧闪烁着璀璨的华光。¤The plaque of Fang Zheng has not faded or dimmed due to war or the passage of time, still shining brightly with dazzling brilliance. 
一幢巍峨恢弘的宫殿伫立在道路尽头，以玄玉制成的牌匾上用灵气刻录着“登仙殿”三个大字。¤A majestic and grand palace stands at the end of the road, with three characters 'Hall of Immortal Ascension' engraved with spiritual energy on the plaque made of black jade.
可惜...这登仙殿的试炼只有一次机会。¤Unfortunately... the trial in the Hall of Immortal Ascension only has one opportunity.
说时迟那时快，他发出了野兽般的嘶吼声，姿态诡怪地向你奔来！¤Speaking slowly but acting fast, he let out a wild beast-like roar and ran towards you in a strange posture!
吼——¤Roar-
那招式你有所了解，分明是金虹剑派所用神通。没想到此处竟有金虹剑派的修士伏击，你怒不可遏，环视四周寻找着飞剑的主人。¤You have some understanding of that technique, which clearly comes from the Divine Skill of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect. Unexpectedly, there are cultivators from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect ambushing here. You are furious and scan your surroundings to find the owner of the flying sword.
那御剑之人手法似乎并不高明，你遥遥望去，竟发现他的衣衫也褴褛不堪，整个人呈出一种极其怪异的颓态。¤The person wielding the flying sword seems to lack skill, as you can see from a distance that their clothes are tattered and their overall appearance is bizarrely decadent.
一柄沾染着金色灵气的飞剑猛地从侧方窜出，你连忙躲闪。那飞剑从你面前呼啸而过，在空中停顿了片刻，再一次向你袭来！¤A flying sword stained with golden spiritual energy suddenly leaped out from the side, and you quickly dodged. The sword whistled past you and paused in midair for a moment before attacking you again!
你收敛气息，慢慢退至远处...¤You restrain your breath and slowly retreat to a distant place...
你赶往那里时，不少的修士也正陆陆续续向这里飞来，看来他们也都是被异象吸引而来。¤When you rush there, many cultivators are also flying here one after another. It seems that they are all attracted by the portent.
有几人似乎抢先一步来到了这里，此时正在半空之中打转巡视，而其中一人正是你在宁州的旧时相识——公孙季。¤Several people seemed to have arrived here earlier, and were now circling in mid-air, inspecting their surroundings. Among them was an old acquaintance of yours from Ningzhou – Gongsun Ji.
不过是一障眼迷阵罢了，只不过设置的颇为精妙，若不是此地异象突显，还真难以注意的到。¤It's just an illusion to deceive the eyes, cleverly designed to be difficult to notice if it weren't for the sudden appearance of abnormal phenomena.
此处应该就是异象显现之地，不过一眼看去，什么也看不到。¤This should be the place where the vision appears, but at first glance, there is nothing to be seen.
你对于阵法之道略有些许研究，但此等复杂的古阵法也未曾见过。一番研究之下仍是一头雾水，只好摇摇头，悻悻然地退到一边。¤You have some slight research on the path of array formation, but you have never seen such complex ancient formations before. After some research, you are still confused and can only shake your head and retreat to the side.
你对于阵法之道知之甚微，虽然有心相助，但一番研究之下仍是一头雾水，只好摇摇头，悻悻然地退到一边。¤You have very limited knowledge of the way of formations, and although you want to help, you are still confused even after some research. You can only shake your head and reluctantly step aside.
足足等待两日后，中心区域突然传来异动。五只石雕兽像缓缓地由地下升起，破开土石的遮掩，显露在人们面前。¤After waiting for two full days, there was suddenly a disturbance in the central area. Five stone beast sculptures slowly rose from underground, breaking through the cover of soil and rocks, revealing themselves to the people.
你对于阵法之道研究颇深，仔细观察之下，便看出了一些端倪。¤You have a deep understanding of the way of arrays, and upon careful observation, you have noticed some clues.
不管这迷阵有何玄妙，闯进去试试便知。¤No matter how mysterious this maze is, go in and try it to find out.
倒也不必，这迷阵虽然难以发现，但真要破解也未必是什么难事。凭此地灵气波动，我便可知晓这障眼迷阵的奥妙。¤It is not necessary. Although this maze is difficult to detect, it may not be difficult to break if needed. Based on the spiritual energy fluctuations of this place, I can understand the mystery of this deceptive maze.
只见公孙季祭出四柄阵旗，掷到四周。一阵灵气波动后，大量的白色雾气竟然凭空出现，一瞬间便将整个地面笼罩于其中。¤I saw Gongsun Ji take out four formation flags and throw them around. After a wave of spiritual energy fluctuated, a large amount of white mist appeared out of thin air, instantly enveloping the entire ground within it.
这...发生什么了？¤What happened?
有意思，看来这里布下的是一个多重阵法，阵中有阵。¤Interesting, it seems that a multiple array formation has been set up here, with arrays within the array.
刚刚外围的障眼迷阵好破，不过眼前这些阵法就不那么容易的，恐怕我也要仔细研究一番。¤The peripheral illusion array was easily broken just now, but these formations in front of me won't be so easy to deal with. It looks like I'll have to study them carefully.
在场的诸位道友，若是有精通于阵法一道的，还请上前一同探讨，或许能加快破除此阵的速度。¤Dear fellow daoists present, if there are any who are proficient in the art of array formations, please come forward and join me in exploring it together, perhaps we can increase the speed of breaking through this array.
你决定...?¤What do you decide...?
有几人似乎抢先一步来到了这里，此时正在半空之中打转巡视.¤Several people seemed to have arrived here ahead of time, and were currently spinning and patrolling in the air.
公孙兄，我来助你。¤Brother Gongsun, I have come to assist you.
原来是{FirstName}{gongzi}，不知你对于破解此阵有何见解？¤The original speaker is {FirstName}{gongzi}. Do you have any insights on how to break this formation?
多谢道友相助，不知你对于破解此阵有何见解？¤Thank you for your help, fellow daoist. May I ask if you have any insights on how to break this formation?
我来助你。¤I'll help you.
这古阵法布置的固然巧妙，但毕竟大小有限，且无人操控。仅需两人神念相连，分别从不同方向进行搜索，同时拔出阵旗，便可破阵。¤The ancient formation set up is indeed ingenious, but it is limited in size and no one is controlling it. Only two people need to connect their spiritual thoughts, search from different directions, and pull out the flags at the same time to break the array.
哈哈哈，此计甚好。既然无人操控，那再精妙的阵法也会缺乏变化，只需仔细搜索出阵旗位置，便可破阵。¤Hahaha, this plan is great. Since no one is controlling it, even the most intricate array will lack variation. Just carefully search for the positions of the flags, and the formation can be broken.
你与公孙季双双领悟了《奇门遁甲录》了精要，虽然还只掌握了一丝皮毛，但要凭此破除眼前的阵法却也不是难事了。¤You and Gongsun Ji both gained enlightenment on the essence of 《The Book of the Mystic》, and although you've only grasped the surface level, it won't be difficult to break the current array with this knowledge.
石雕兽像成十字型分别居于正东、正南、正西、正北及正中方，每座雕像上的灵兽似乎各有不同。¤Ten cross-shaped stone animal statues are located in the east, south, west, north, and center respectively, and each statue seems to have a different spirit animal.
你仔细观察一番，其上的灵兽分别为青龙、朱雀、白虎、玄武以及应龙，你心下有所推断时，一只手轻轻地拍了拍你的肩膀。¤You carefully observe and notice that the spiritual beasts on it are the Azure Dragon, Vermilion Bird, White Tiger, Black Tortoise, and Ying Long. As you are pondering, someone gently pats your shoulder.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}有何见解？¤What are your thoughts, {FirstName} brother?
不敢班门弄斧，不过依我之见，此雕塑是否与五行相关？¤I dare not show off my limited knowledge, but in my opinion, is this sculpture related to the Five Elements?
不错，先前我曾见过相似的阵法，这些石雕被激活后会释放出其内封印的守护兽，虽说未必是雕刻的形象，但一定与其上兽形对应的五行属性相同，也受五行相生相克之道的影响。¤Not bad, before I had seen a similar array, these stone carvings will release their sealed beast protectors after being activated. Although they may not be in the same form as the carving, they must correspond to the five elements attributes of the beast shape above them, and are also influenced by the principles of the mutual generation and destruction of the five elements.
比如那只水属性的傀儡，若是用火属性的法术攻击它，恐怕难伤其分毫，但若是用土属性的法术攻击它，便可事半功倍。¤For example, if a puppet with water attributes is attacked with a fire spell, it may be difficult to harm even a bit, but if it is attacked with an earth spell, it can be twice the result with half the effort.
此事好说，我...¤Okay, this matter is easy, I...
此事好说，我可以负责其中的...¤This matter is easy to handle, I can take responsibility for it.
区区五兽，若是往常我一人便可对付。只不过刚刚在其他地方受了些轻伤，现在还没有完全恢复，不便出手。¤Just five beasts, if it were usual, I alone could deal with them. However, I suffered some minor injuries in another place earlier, and I haven't fully recovered yet, so I can't act.
无妨，无妨。我再去寻其他人帮忙便是。¤It's alright, it's alright. I'll go and find other people to help.
既然如此，这尊兽像便拜托{FirstName}{xiongdi}了。¤If that's the case, then I entrust this beast statue to {FirstName} {xiongdi}.
几只守护兽而已，我一人便可解决，而且我对于炼制这些傀儡兽的材质也颇为感兴趣，公孙兄就将他们让与我，如何？¤There are only a few beast protectors, I can handle them alone. Also, I am quite interested in the materials used to make these puppets. Gongsun brother, will you let me have them?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}果真胆识过人！既然如此，那这几尊兽像便拜托你了。¤{FirstName}, your courage truly exceeds expectations! In that case, I'll entrust these few beast statues to you, {xiongdi}.
你与公孙季二人分工行动，连掐法决，开始尝试逐一破解剩余的连环阵法。¤You and Gongsun Ji work together to systematically crack the remaining formations using a joint method and techniques.
这些阵法虽说无人操控，但往往刚刚破除一个，便又在另外一处生出一个更为难缠的新阵法，即便你们二人合力，也不免感到一丝无力。¤Although these arrays are not controlled by anyone, they often break just as soon as one is dismantled, only to be replaced by a more difficult new array in another location. Even with the two of you working together, you can't help but feel a sense of powerlessness.
真是了不得...难道...难道这便是传说中的奇门遁甲之术？¤It's really amazing... Could it be... Could this be the legendary Odd Gate Escaping Technique?
难怪如此棘手...那依公孙兄所见，该如何才能破除这些连环阵法？¤No wonder it's so tricky... So, according to Brother Gongsun's perspective, how can we break through these connected array formations?
不错，相传以此手法布阵时，可源源不断地从天地间吸收灵气。因此，布阵者往往可以在一瞬之间便布下多重连环阵法，令破阵之人无从下手。¤Not bad. It is said that by using this method to arrange the formation, one can continuously absorb spiritual energy from between heaven and earth. Therefore, those who arrange the formation can often set up multiple linked array formations in an instant, making it difficult for the person breaking the formation to know where to start.
哈哈哈，此等{color=#d0380a}大好机缘{/color}正在眼前，{$TmpTalkString}竟还在想着如何破阵么？¤Hahaha, such a great {color=#d0380a}opportunity{/color} is right in front of us, yet {$TmpTalkString} is still thinking about how to break formation?
只见公孙季一遍说着，一边盘腿坐下，连掐法决祭出五柄阵旗，然后操控着阵旗围绕着他缓慢旋转起来。¤Only to see Gongsun Ji, while speaking, sat cross-legged and sacrificed five array flags with hand gestures, then controlled the flags to rotate slowly around him.
公孙季一言不发，只是盘腿坐下，连掐法决祭出五柄阵旗，然后操控着阵旗围绕着他缓慢旋转起来。¤Gongsun Ji sat cross-legged, not uttering a word. He only performed a finger technique, summoning five formation flags which he then controlled to slowly revolve around him.
公孙季一言不发，你一时不解他是何意，只当他是想出了什么你没能想到的破阵方式，只能退至一旁等候。¤Gongsun Ji remains silent, and you are momentarily unsure what he means. You assume he has come up with a method for breaking formation that you haven't thought of, so you can only step aside and wait.
你楞了一下，随机也心领神会的盘腿坐下。若能借此机会领悟《奇门遁甲录》，倒是再想破除这里的阵法自然是手到擒来。¤You hesitated for a moment, then sat down cross-legged with a sudden understanding. If you could use this opportunity to gain enlightenment from the book of the mystic, breaking the array here would be a piece of cake.
领悟{color=#d0380a}《奇门遁甲录》{/color}¤Enlightenment 《The Book of the Mystic》
随着阵法被破，浓雾褪去，五只石雕兽像缓缓地由地下升起，破开土石的遮掩，显露在人们面前。¤As the array was broken, the thick fog dissipated, and the five stone animal statues slowly rose from the underground, breaking through the cover of soil and rocks, revealing themselves in front of the people.
前方便是异象显现之地，你察觉到不少修士都正在往这个方向靠拢。前路难测，你决定...？¤-Before us is the land where manifestations of anomalies appear. You notice many cultivators are converging towards that direction. The road ahead is unclear, what do you decide to do? Note
要进入下一层么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Do you want to enter the next level? {w}{w=0.5}
沿着石阶走了大约一炷香的时间，你们遥遥望见通往下一层的石台。几位修士见此略微加快了脚步，你敏锐地察觉到似乎有什么正从头顶飞掠而来。¤After walking along the stone steps for about the time it takes to burn one stick of incense, you see a stone platform leading to the next level in the distance. Some cultivators quicken their pace upon seeing it, and you keenly sense that something seems to be flying over your head.
几枚金灿灿的箭支从一旁飞出，似是能够追寻踪迹般迅敏地朝着那几位走在前方的修士的头颅射去。¤Several golden arrows flew out from the side, as if they could track the figures of the cultivators walking in front, and shot swiftly towards their heads.
走在最前面的倪旭欣险些被击中，所幸他似乎随身携带着什么高阶的防御法宝，这才帮他抵挡下来。¤The front-runner Ni Xuxin narrowly avoided being hit, luckily he seemed to have a high-level defence magical treasure on him which helped him withstand the attack.
只是另外的几位修士躲闪不急，被那小箭射个正着，半息时间便昏死过去。而余下众人各显神通，开始对付那几支诡异的光箭。¤However, the other cultivators were unable to dodge in time and were shot by the small arrows, fainting immediately. The remaining people displayed their divine skills and began to deal with the few strange rays of light.
此言一出，几道神识攻击破空而出，果真将那箭击碎成点点光屑。¤Upon uttering these words, several strikes of soul sense broke through the sky, truly shattering the arrow into scattered specks of light.
小心，这是神识陷阱！¤Be careful, this is a trap for the soul sense!
呼...呼...呼...好险...¤*huff* *huff* *huff* That was close...
倪旭欣脚下拌蒜，一屁股跌坐在地上，大口大口地喘着粗气。¤Ni Xuxin stumbled over garlic and fell onto the ground, panting heavily.
林姑娘，你识得这箭矢的由来？¤Miss Lin, do you recognize the origin of this arrow?
不错，我曾在族中记录的秘术中读到过一种能够直接攻击修士神识的机关陷阱，唤作夺魄箭。¤Not bad, I once read about a trap in the secret arts recorded in our clan that can directly strike at a cultivator's soul sense, called the Soul-Stealing Arrow.
这种箭矢没有实体，无法用寻常的灵气护罩进行抵挡。要想通过这里，就只有凝聚神识，形成一道足够防御其攻击的屏障才行。¤This type of arrow has no physical presence and cannot be blocked with normal spiritual energy shields. To pass through here, one must condense their soul sense and form a strong enough shield to defend against its attacks.
我不擅长神识防御，不过我看这箭矢的飞行速度并不快，足够让我以身法躲开。只要冲过这一段台阶，应该就不会再受到攻击了。¤I am not skilled at defending against soul sense attacks, but from what I see, the arrow's flight speed is not very fast, which is enough for me to dodge with my agility. As long as I rush past this section of steps, I shouldn't be attacked again.
百里奇说完，便闪身向前冲去。夺魂剑再次飞出，百里奇脚下步伐变换，化出道道残影，将飞来的箭矢一一避开。¤After Baili Qi finished speaking, he flashed forward and charged ahead. The Soul-Stealing Sword flew out once again, and Baili Qi's footwork changed, creating lingering shadows to avoid the incoming arrows one by one.
短短一息之间，他便成功跃过台阶，抵达了安全的地段。¤In just a short moment, he successfully leaped over the steps and reached a safe area.
见百里奇成功穿过，众人各展其长，或以神识屏障相抵，或依仗法宝或是丹药硬闯，纷纷通过此地。¤Upon seeing Baili Qi successfully pass through, everyone showed off their abilities, either using their soul sense to shield themselves, relying on their artifacts or pills to forcefully break through, all passing through this place one after another.
既已摸清陷阱的底细，你决定...¤Having already understood the depths of the trap, you decide...
经过陷阱时，那箭果然又向你飞来。你早有应对之法，以神识屏障轻松化解了攻击。¤When passing through the trap, the arrow did indeed fly towards you again. However, you had already prepared a response and easily defused the attack with your soul sense shield.
你身法精妙，效仿百里奇的方式顺利的闯过了这处陷阱。¤Your body movement is exquisite, and you successfully passed through this trap by following Baili Qi's way.
要向谁求助呢...¤Who should I ask for help?
我不擅于神识防御，凭身法硬闯风险未免又太大，仅靠自己一人似乎难以安全通过。¤I am not skilled in soul sense defence, relying solely on physical agility to forcefully break through is too risky. It seems difficult to safely pass through relying only on oneself.
你看了一眼还坐在地上的倪道友，不禁有些头大...¤You glanced at Daoist Ni still sitting on the ground, feeling a bit overwhelmed...
好险好险，没想到这里还有人设下了陷阱，当真阴险。¤I was so lucky! I didn't expect someone had set up a trap here. They are really cunning.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}不用担心，此番我身上带了不少的丹药，以备不时之需。这几枚是可以临战增幅神识的丹药，咱们服下后便可通过这里。¤{FirstName}, {xiongdi}, don't worry. I have brought plenty of pills with me in case of emergency. These pills can enhance our soul sense during battle. We can take them and proceed from here.
你在倪旭欣几颗丹药的帮助下狼狈地越过了这处陷阱...¤With the help of a few pills from Ni Xuxin, you barely crossed this pit trap...
你看向还站一旁的林沐心，她心领神会地对你笑了笑。¤You look towards Lin Muxin who is still standing beside you, and she smiles understandingly at you.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}不用担心，我们林家的独门秘术中有记载过几种对付这种陷阱的办法。¤{FirstName} don't have to worry, our Lin Family's secret arts have recorded several ways to deal with such traps.
你跟着我一起，我自有办法护你周全。¤You follow me, I have a way to protect you completely.
你在林沐心的帮助下顺利地越过了这处陷阱...¤With the help of Lin Muxin, you smoothly passed through this trap.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}莫慌，我有一件神识类的防御法宝，可助你我二人通过此地。¤{FirstName}, my {xiongdi}, do not panic. I have a defence magical treasure that uses soul sense, which can help the two of us to pass through this area.
你在公孙季的帮助下顺利地越过了这处陷阱...¤You successfully passed this trap with the help of Gongsun Ji... 
要阅读石壁上的文字么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Do you want to read the words on the stone wall? {w}{w=0.5}
魔物！这剑是魔物！它在蚕食我的神魄...我的识海正在被魔气污染！我想把剑丢下逃到外面...外面的人也疯了！没有意识、不知疼痛...古原城的煞气竟如此恐怖！¤Evil creature! This sword is an evil creature! It is devouring my soul... My mind is being polluted by magic qi! I want to throw the sword away and escape outside... But the people outside are also going crazy! They are unconscious and don't feel pain... The evil aura of Gu Yuan City is so terrifying!
我又回到了这里...还好我带来的灵药够多，我要在此研究出克制魔煞之气的丹药才行......留给我的时间不多了，再这样下去我迟早会变成外面的疯子！！！¤I have returned here again...fortunately, I brought enough spiritual pill with me. I must research and develop pills that can suppress the demonic aura...I don't have much time left, if I continue to stay here like this, I will eventually become a lunatic like those outside!!!
你们行至一间简陋的石室，靠近出口的那侧墙壁上似乎刻上了万年前的古文。壁上的文字笔力雄健，飞动舒展，即使历经万年岁月仍有淡淡的灵力蕴于其中。¤You arrive at a crude stone chamber, on the wall near the exit seems to be inscribed with ancient characters from ten thousand years ago. The strokes of the writing on the wall are powerful and free-flowing, even after enduring the passage of time for ten thousand years there is still a faint inherent spiritual power within.
我得到了！这剑终究落入我手中了！得此宝剑，我玄机散人的名号必定响彻宁州，离飞升也不过一步之遥！¤I've got it! This sword has finally fallen into my hands! With this treasure sword, my name as a Mixed Person Xuanji will surely resound throughout Ningzhou, and I am only one step away from ascending!
外面的修士还在寻找剑的下落，我要先躲在这里避避风头。有我引以为傲的阵法遮掩，他们必定不会找到我的藏身之处！古原城即将塌陷算得了什么，最多五百年...最多五百年我便可踏破虚空，直济琼瑶，哈哈！¤The cultivators outside are still searching for the sword's whereabouts, so I must hide here first. With the array that I am proud of concealing me, they surely won't find my hiding place! What does it matter if Gu Yuan City is about to collapse, at most, in five hundred years... at most, in five hundred years, I can break through the void and directly reach Qiong Yao, haha!
又有一只煞魔向众人扑来!¤Another evil demon rushed towards the crowd!
你决定...¤You decide...
你默默退至众人身后，此番大家有了经验，纷纷祭出法宝攻击，很快便将那只煞魔击溃。¤You silently retreated behind the crowd. This time everyone had experience and they all wielded their artifacts to strike, quickly defeating the evil demon.
（此山地处竹山宗与逸风城交界，又历来人迹罕至，实是藏身的好地方。）¤(This mountain is located at the border between Bamboo Mountain Sect and Yifeng City, and has rarely been visited by humans, making it an ideal hiding place.)
哎，刚刚才得罪那位前辈，我还是不要再回去了。¤Ah, I just offended that senior earlier, I better not go back.
附近似乎被布下了重重禁制，无法进入其中。¤The surrounding area seems to have been heavily restricted and cannot be entered.
你拿出信物，只见禁制外围开始变幻，很快便留出了一个可供一人通行的通道。¤You take out the token and the ban formation on the outer circle starts to change. Soon, a passage is left out that can accommodate only one person to pass through.
要离开白帝楼底层吗？¤Do you want to leave the bottom floor of White Emperor Pavilion?
这里是底层剑池，要在此地采集材料吗？¤Are you going to gather materials here in the lower sword pond?
要回到上一层么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Do you want to go back to level 1? {w}{w=0.5}
前方的煞气似乎又浓郁了几分，昏暗的石径深处传来一股令人不适的威压感。¤The aura ahead seems to have become even more dense, and an uncomfortable sense of might suppression emanates from the depths of the dimly lit stone path.
察觉到这一点的你们重新整顿队伍，放缓速度小心地向前方行进。¤Those of you who have noticed this should reorganize the team, slow down and proceed forward carefully.
一道细小的黑影在不远处的石阶前席地而坐，你所感受到的威压正是从那里传来。¤A small dark shadow sits on the stone steps not far away, and the oppressive aura you sense is coming from there.
小心，这股威压非同寻常。¤Be careful, this suppression is not ordinary.
那人阻拦在你们前往深处的必经之路上，若想前往深处必定与他有所交集。¤That person blocks the way to the depths that you must pass through. If you want to go deeper, you will definitely have some interaction with him.
黑影低着头，一头长发杂乱地垂下，将面目遮住。血红色的煞气围绕在他的身边，凝结成恍若实体的遮罩。¤The shadow lowered its head and its long hair hung down in a messy way, covering its face. Its surroundings were enveloped in a blood-red demonic energy, condensing into a tangible shield.
这人看起来当真是十分棘手。¤The person looks really tricky.
从气息上看应当有元婴大圆满的修为...但这压迫感......¤Judging from the breath, there should be a cultivation level of Nascent Soul Great Perfection... but this oppressive feeling...
此般实力...难不成...他就是搭建这座地宫的玄机真人？¤This level of strength...could it be...he is the expert who constructed the secrets of this underground palace?
生...死...¤Life...death...
他嘴里含糊不清地轻声念叨着你们听不懂的话语。¤He murmured incomprehensible words softly in his mouth, which you couldn't understand.
没想到连这等人物竟也被煞气侵蚀得失了神智。¤I didn't expect even such a person to be affected by the erosion of the killing intent and lose their consciousness.
小心，他似乎在附近还布下了其它阵法...奇怪...¤Be careful, he seems to have set up other arrays nearby... strange...
那玄机散人仿佛察觉到你们的到来，抬起头来看向你们。猩红色的眸子里闪动着诡异的光，只与他对视了一眼，你便感到一阵头晕目眩，恶心作呕。¤The mixed person xuanji seemed to sense your arrival and looked up at you. Strange light flickered in their crimson eyes. Just by meeting their gaze, you felt dizzy, nauseous, and disoriented.
你暗道一声不妙，运起一股灵气直冲天灵，瞬间便清醒过来。¤You muttered to yourself that this was bad, then activated a surge of spiritual energy that shot straight up to the Sky Spirit, instantly becoming clear-headed.
再向周围望去时，只见那些修为稍低的修士都已神志不清地跌倒在地，一时半会儿看来是恢复不了。¤When looking around, only those cultivators with slightly lower cultivation levels were seen to have fallen to the ground with muddled minds, and it seemed that they would not be able to recover for a while.
你们替我压阵，我先先来会会他！¤You guys hold the line for me, I'll go meet him first!
不能轻敌，此人修为实乃当世罕见，又有血煞之气扰魂，我没有把握能对付他。¤I cannot underestimate this person, as their cultivation is truly rare in the world, and they also possess disturbing spirit and blood fury qi. I am not confident in being able to deal with them.
你连忙盘腿坐下，将周身灵气足足运转了三个大周天后，才缓过劲来。¤You quickly sat cross-legged and activated your spiritual energy to flow through three large circulations before finally recovering.
我已有对敌之策，大家先按我所指的方位结成合阵，若任何一人受到攻击，其他人皆可支援。¤I already have a strategy against the enemy, everyone follow my instructions and form a combined formation in the indicated direction. If anyone is attacked, others can provide support.
不过一人而已，何必如此瞻前顾后。我先试试他的手段！¤It's just one person, why bother looking around like this? Let me first try his methods!
百里奇一个纵身便冲了上去，还未等他靠近，玄机真人布下的阵法便自行运转起来，将众人围困在内。¤Baili Qi leaped up and charged forward. Before he could get close, the array set up by Xuanji Master automatically activated, trapping everyone inside.
我也来助你，怪人吃我一剑！¤I will also assist you. Strange person, eat my sword!
罢了，既然如此就由百里兄负责主攻，倪兄和林姑娘在一旁协助。我们剩下的人先想办法破除周围的阵法。¤Alright, since that's the case, let Brother Baili lead the main attack, while Brother Ni and Miss Lin assist on the side. The rest of us will figure out how to break the array surrounding us.
众人在公孙季的指引之下将外围的阵法一一破除，尽管那玄机真人也算修为通天，但在场的诸位皆是如今宁州数一数二的高手，联手之下也不惧于他。¤Under the guidance of Gongsun Ji, everyone broke through the outer array one by one. Although the Mystery Immortal had a cultivation that reached the heavens, everyone present were considered top experts in Ningzhou. With their combined strength, they were not afraid of him.
百里奇一拳击散了玄机真人的元婴，伴随着玄机真人的身死，威压渐渐散去，但地宫深处传来的煞气却愈发浓烈起来。¤Baili Qi punched and scattered the Nascent Soul of the Mystery Expert. With the death of the Mystery Expert, the Might Suppression gradually dissipated, but the evil energy emanating from the depths of the underground palace became even stronger.
果然是这样...¤Sure enough, it's like this...
公孙兄指的是？¤Who does 'Gongsun Xiong' refer to?
刚刚我便有些疑虑，布下这些阵法的人与其说是为了防止外人闯入，反倒是更害怕里面有什么东西出来。¤Just now, I had some doubts. The person who set up these arrays was not so much trying to prevent outsiders from entering, but rather was more afraid of something coming out from inside.
那几个敛息的阵法也证明了这一点。你们看，一旦阵法破除，地宫深处传来的煞气便更甚以往。¤Those restraining arrays also prove this point. You see, once the array is broken, the malevolent aura that emanates from the depths of the underground palace becomes even stronger than before.
看来，那玄机真人布下这重重机关与阵法，是为了将某样至凶至邪之物封印起来...会是什么呢？¤It appears that the mystery expert laid out these multiple traps and arrays to seal away a certain extremely vicious and evil thing... What could it be?
亲自看看不就知道了。能见识一下这种级别的法宝出世的景象，这次也算不虚此行了。¤I can see for myself and then I'll know. Witnessing the emergence of an artifact of this caliber is worth the trip.
你眼前一黑，跌坐在地。¤You blacked out and fell to the ground.
快运气调息，将煞气逼出体外。¤Quickly adjust your breath and expel the negative energy from your body.
再向周围望去时，只见那些修为稍低的修士都已神志不清地跌倒在地，看来他们也和你一样，一时半会儿是恢复不了。¤When looking around again, it was only seen that those cultivators with slightly lower cultivation levels had fallen to the ground in a confused state. It seems that, like you, they will not be able to recover for a while.
嗡——¤Om
一阵尖锐刺耳的剑鸣声突然响起，一柄通体被煞气沾染的魔剑不知从何处飞来，众人连忙闪身躲避。¤A sharp and piercing sound of swords suddenly resounded, a demon sword that was entirely contaminated with malevolent energy flew from somewhere, and everyone quickly dodged.
哦？难道这就是多宝塔里封印的那把剑吗？看这股气息，果然不是凡品。¤Oh? Is this the sword that was sealed in the Duobao Tower? Judging from the aura, it's definitely not an ordinary item.
好剑，好剑。此剑至少也有纯阳法宝级别，看我将它拿下！¤Good sword, good sword. This sword is at least of pure yang magic treasure level, watch me take it down!
倪旭欣御起灵剑，就向魔剑攻去，一时间剑气四溢，两柄剑竟打了个势均力敌，好不热闹。¤Ni Xuxin wielded his Spirit-controlling Sword and attacked the Demon Sword, causing Sword Qi to fill the air. The two swords ended up in a stalemate, creating a lively scene.
这柄剑...¤This sword...
我也有这种感觉，老头儿。你可是想说这里的剑灵和御剑门里的剑灵有些许相似之处？¤I also have this feeling, old man. Are you trying to say that there are some similarities between the sword spirits here and the sword spirits in the Imperial Sword Sect? 
不错，御剑门之内的杀戮也与此剑类似，沾染着不知从何而来的魔气。这柄剑虽煞气四溢，掩盖住了那古怪的气息，但通过他们的交手，我很确定它也有被魔气侵蚀的迹象。¤Not bad, the killing within the Imperial Sword Sect is similar to this sword, tainted with magic qi from an unknown source. Although this sword is overflowing with murderous aura, masking its strange energy, through their exchange, I am sure it has signs of being corrupted by magic qi.
真是奇怪...难道这就是刚才玄机上人提到的“那把剑”？¤It's really strange... Could this be the sword mentioned by the mysterious person on the 玄机 just now?
依我之见，那玄机上人最初的记录中，字里行间满是对那剑的夸耀之情，这把魔剑品质虽然尚可，但也不至于令元婴圆满的修士另眼相看，其中定有其他玄机才是。¤In my opinion, in the initial records of the Xuanji master, there is a strong admiration for that sword between the lines. Although the quality of this demon sword is still acceptable, it is not enough to impress a cultivator who has achieved the perfection of the nascent soul stage. There must be other mysteries that are more valuable.
那倪旭欣与魔剑斗得兴起，一时间僵持不下，反倒是在后面围观的众人渐渐不耐烦起来。¤Ni Xuxin fought with the demon sword vigorously, and for a time they were evenly matched. However, the onlookers behind them gradually grew impatient.
够了，我们这么多人来这里是为了调查此地异象的，可没有功夫看你一个人耍剑。¤That's enough, we all came here to investigate the abnormality of this place. We don't have time to watch you play with your sword.
我们一起出手，尽快把这柄魔剑拿下。¤We'll make a move together and take down the demon sword as soon as possible.
化尘教的众人纷纷祭出法宝围攻上去，很快便将魔剑压制下来。¤The people of the Shifting Sand Sect all used their artifacts to attack and quickly suppressed the demon sword.
可惜可惜，我还没有施展我的独门剑招，否则定能将此魔剑拿下！¤Unfortunately, unfortunately, I haven't had a chance to use my unique sword technique, otherwise I would definitely be able to take down this demon sword!
魏老头，你怎么看？¤Old Wei, what do you think?
此剑若论品阶，应当和我们在御剑门中所遇到的剑灵相差无几，但实力却能与元婴期修士媲美。¤If we were to evaluate its class, this sword should be on par with the sword spirits we encountered in the Imperial Sword Sect, but its strength is comparable to that of a Nascent Soul cultivator.
如果我所料不错，这地宫中应该封印着什么了不得的魔物。若是法宝的话，恐怕是通天灵宝这一级别的。¤If I am not mistaken, there should be a formidable spirit beast sealed within this underground palace. If it is an artifact, it is likely to be of the same level as the spiritual treasures.
若非如此，又怎么会吸引这么多人过来，说不定待会儿还会有一番恶战。¤Otherwise, how could it attract so many people over? Maybe there will be a fierce battle later.
依旧是类似的石室，不过那些纷杂凌乱的符号已经很难以“文字”来称呼，只能算是一大段看不清形状的划痕。¤Still the same kind of stone chamber, but those messy and disorderly symbols are difficult to call words, and can only be counted as a large section of indistinct and shapeless scratches.
方正古朴的大殿内一尘不染，与宁州古迹内的其它断壁残垣截然不同，只有在这里你还能感受到古原城旧日的辉煌景象。¤The simple and ancient hall inside Fang Zheng is spotless, completely different from the other ruins in Ning Province Ancient Ruin. Only here can you still feel the glory of Gu Yuan City in the past.
若想开启试炼，只需将灵气注入石碑。切记，凡入登仙阁者，皆只有一次机会接受试炼。¤If you wish to initiate the trial, just inject your spiritual energy into the stone tablet. Remember, whoever enters the Immortal Tower will only have one chance to accept the trial.
一块方尖碑伫立在大殿的正中，石碑的表面散发着柔和的光芒。而除了这块石碑外，四周空荡荡的，什么也没有。¤A square stele tower stands solemnly in the center of the main hall, with a soft glow emanating from its surface. Besides this stone tower, there is nothing in the empty surroundings.
你将手掌贴在石碑之上，一道耀眼的强光旋即将你淹没...当光芒消散后，你也凭空消失了。¤You place your palm on the stone tablet, and a dazzling light immediately engulfs you... When the light dissipates, you also disappear into thin air.
你攻击你能看到的墙壁试试。¤Try to strike the walls that you can see.
一阵天旋地转过后，你回到了入口处。¤After a moment of dizziness, you find yourself back at the entrance.
这到底是哪里，根本看不到尽头！¤What is this place, I can't see the end at all!
不要在合阵中和他们硬碰硬，先冲出去再说。一次面对这么多人的攻击对你很不利！¤Do not collide head-on with them within the formation, break through first and then think. Facing an attack from so many people at once is not beneficial for you!
没错，你将五感切断，神识内敛，摒除一切杂念，如此便可魂归肉身。¤Yes, you sever your five senses, contain your soul sense, eliminate all distractions, and thus you can return your soul to your physical body.
结阵！¤Line up!
如此大型的石廊，若是在古原城内，我一定已经见过...难道是在地下？¤Such a large stone corridor, if it were in the Gu Yuan City, I would have already seen it... Could it be underground?
你凝聚周身灵气，连斩三人，终于打出一个突破口，从合阵中冲了出去，向石廊深处跑去。刚刚被你打倒的石人果然又恢复原状，跟在你的身后追了过来。¤You condensed your spiritual energy throughout your entire body, slicing through three people in a row, finally breaking through the encirclement and rushing out from the formation, running towards the depths of the stone corridor. The stone men that you had just defeated had indeed restored their original state, chasing after you from behind.
真是闻所未闻...那岂不是说，我只要能将魂魄收回肉身，就能离开这里了？¤This is unheard of... Does that mean that if I can retrieve my soul and bring it back to my body, I can leave from here?
你将灵力凝聚于掌心，猛地向石壁挥去，石壁却纹丝不动，整块墙面宛如一体铸造，你的全力一掌竟无法留下一丝伤痕。¤You gather your spiritual energy into the palm of your hand and fiercely strike toward the stone wall, but the wall remains completely unchanged. The entire wall appears to have been cast as one piece, and your full force palm strike is unable to leave even a scratch on it.
还未等你好好观察周围的环境，只听身后传来一阵噼里啪啦的响声，石壁中竟钻出数十个石人。他们一脱离墙面，五官面容与衣着就迅速变化起来，看上去与常人无异。¤Without proper observation of the surrounding environment, a series of banging sounds could suddenly be heard from behind you. Dozens of stone men emerged from the stone walls. As they left the walls, their facial features, appearance, and clothing quickly changed, making them look just like normal people.
那十余人将你团团围住，紧跟着便直接杀了过来。¤Those more than ten people surrounded you tightly and then directly came to kill.
石廊...？¤Stone corridor...?
在这个空间内，你和我，包括那些石人都只是灵魂体罢了，大家都没有肉身的保护，只是以魂魄的力量在互相攻击。¤In this space, you and I, including all those stone men, are just soul bodies. None of us have physical protection, and we only attack each other with the power of our souls.
你看准时机，将其中一人拦腰斩成数段，但他破碎的身体很快化为一滩银灰色的液体，又重新凝聚起来。周围的其他人又向你攻来，你只能闪身躲开。¤You seized the opportunity and sliced one of them in half at the waist, but his shattered body quickly turned into a puddle of silver-grey liquid and then reformed. The others around you attacked again, and you had no choice but to dodge and evade.
如果我没猜错的话，这里是一处独立的结界空间，我们看到的是石廊和石人都只不过是掩人耳目的表象罢了。¤If I'm not mistaken, this is an independent realm space. What we see here, the stone corridor and stone man, is just a facade to deceive and mislead.
见此情景，你长舒一口气，盘腿坐下，开始尝试切断五感，摒弃杂念...¤Seeing this scene, you take a deep breath and sit cross-legged, beginning to try to cut off your five senses and dispel distractions...
你如今也已经有了不俗的修为，但要论对魂魄力量的掌控，可是远远不如老夫。¤You now have decent cultivation, but when it comes to controlling soul power, you are far inferior to me.
或许是这样...¤Perhaps it is like this...
魏无极大喝一声，竟凭空凝聚出一道剑刃，将身后一人的脑袋刺出一个大窟窿来。¤Wei Wuji loudly shouted and unexpectedly condensed a sword blade out of thin air, piercing a big hole in the head of a person behind him.
怎么可能，这些人分明都是不死之身。这样打下去就算打到我灵力枯竭，也拿他们没有任何办法。¤How is it possible? These people are clearly immortal. Even if I fight until my spiritual power is depleted, I still won't be able to do anything to them.
放心吧，这一千多年我也不是毫无长进，这些人我来帮你对付，你专心寻找肉身方位便是。¤Rest assured, I have not made no progress in the past thousand years. I will help you deal with these people, you just focus on finding the location of the physical body.
这幻象也未免太真实了，那些石人围困我的那些攻击可都是实实在在的，我可挨不了几下。¤This illusion is too realistic, those stone men surrounding me and their attacks were all real, I can't withstand many more hits.
一阵天旋地转后，你发现自身已经处在一高大的石廊之中。这廊道不到十丈宽，却足有数百丈之高，向前看更是一眼望不到头。看这规模，应该已经远远超过你在外围所见到的那座登仙殿。¤After a moment of vertigo, you find yourself in a tall stone corridor. The corridor is less than ten zhang wide, but several hundred zhang tall, and stretching out in front of you as far as the eye can see. Judging by its size, it should far exceed the Hall of Immortal Ascension that you saw on the outer periphery.
去！¤Go!
不好，这下试炼大概是失败了！¤Not good, it looks like this trial has probably failed!
哈哈哈，我果然所料不错。这登仙殿的阁主好手段，竟能将人的肉体与魂魄分别传送到两个不同的空间。¤Hahaha, I really guessed it right. The Hall of Immortal Ascension's Lord is truly skilled, as they were able to separate the physical body and soul of a person and send them to two different spaces.
你...你怎么能打到他们？¤How...how could you hit them?
只见魏无极召唤出数十柄灵气飞剑，围绕你们二人形成一个飞速旋转的剑阵，轻松便将那些石人挡在外面。¤I saw Wei Wuji summon dozens of spiritual energy flying swords, forming a swiftly rotating sword array around the two of you, easily blocking those stone men outside.
说的简单，我光是要躲避那些石人的攻击就极为不易，哪里还有功夫做这些。¤The explanation is simple, just dodging the attacks of those stone men is extremely difficult, let alone having time to do these things.
这千年来我对灵魂能力的运用颇有研究，或许我可以将自己的一部分力量强行分给{ta}，这样或许便能够满足领悟《玄清天衍录》的条件。¤For the past thousand years, I have extensively studied the use of soul abilities. Perhaps I can forcibly transfer a portion of my power to {ta}. This may satisfy the requirement for {ta} to attain enlightenment in 《Xuan Qing Tian Yan Lu》.
你按虚影的要求盘腿坐下，很快，一道神念传入你的识海。你下意识地控制神识与这道神念接触，却丝毫没有任何反应。¤You sit cross-legged according to the phantom's requirements, and soon a divine sense is transmitted into your sea of consciousness. You instinctively control your soul sense to connect with this divine sense, but there is no response at all.
上万年？你怎么可能活这么久？¤Ten thousand years? How could you possibly have lived for so long?
很快，刚才那道神念再一次传入你的识海。你控制神识与它刚一接触，便有无数的文字钻入你的脑海之中。¤Soon, the divine sense from earlier once again entered your sea of consciousness. As soon as your soul sense made contact with it, countless words drilled into your mind.
玄微飞升后，此人便破解了外围的传送阵法，未曾经过试炼就直接进入了内殿。¤After Xuan Wei ascended, this person immediately deciphered the outer teleportation array and entered the inner hall without undergoing any trials.
你不一样！你可是...¤You're different! You are...
灵魂体？你是怎么进入这里的？¤Soul body? How did you enter here?
难道是你帮了他？怎么可能，登仙殿的阵法不可能将两个灵魂同时传送到一个空间，除非...¤Is it possible that you helped him? How could that be? The array in the Hall of Immortal Ascension can't possibly teleport two souls to the same space at the same time, unless...
来吧，我们再试一次。¤Come on, let's try again.
只需观摩这些笔走游龙的字体，你便感到体内的灵气似受到呼应般地开始沸腾，正在按照功法所记录的那样自行地运转起来。¤Just by observing these cursive fonts, you will feel the spiritual energy in your body responding like boiling, autonomously operating according to what has been recorded in the practice technique.
想要修炼这《玄清天衍录》，必须有极强的灵魂能量作为基础。尽管那人修为不俗，但这最基础的条件却无法满足。¤To cultivate the 《Xuan Qing Tian Yan Lu》, one must have a very strong soul energy as a foundation. Although the person's cultivation is not bad, they cannot meet this most basic requirement.
看来若想要通过试炼，必须依靠自身的灵魂力量击败那些石人，这也是那玄微设下这种试炼关卡的原因吧。¤It seems that if one wishes to pass the trial, they must rely on their own soul power to defeat those stone men. This is also the reason why Xuan Wei set up this trial checkpoint.
这里是登仙殿真正的内阁，唯有通过玄微老贼设下的诸多考验之人，才能来到这里。¤This is the true Hall of Immortal Ascension, only those who have passed the many trials set by the crafty Xuanwei elderly thief can come here.
呼...¤Ah...
名字这种东西，几千年前我便忘了。我或许曾经是人，是妖，也可能是魔，又有什么关系...现在我仅剩下这一缕残念，被永远拘束于此。¤The concept of a name, I forgot about it thousands of years ago. Perhaps I was once human, a demon, or even a devil, it doesn't matter... Now I am only left with this trace of regret, forever bound to this place.
你口中的玄微，便是建立这座登仙殿之人么？¤Your Xuanwei, is it the person who established this Hall of Immortal Ascension?
也差不多是时候替你接受传承了，你且坐好。¤It's about time for you to accept the inheritance, please sit still.
这么说，若是我得到了这份传承，你便可以解脱了？¤So you're saying that if I obtain this inheritance, you will be freed?
无妨，灵魂能量稍有损耗罢了...没有伤及根源，很快就可以恢复的。¤No problem, the soul energy has only been slightly depleted...it did not harm the root and can quickly recover.
一阵笑声将你唤醒，你睁开眼，正好看到那道虚影化为点点星光，消散在空气之中。¤A burst of laughter wakes you up, and as you open your eyes, you see the phantom transform into specks of starlight, dissipating into the air.
太久没有和人说过话了，我已经被这无尽的孤独折磨了上万年...¤I haven't talked to anyone for too long. I have been tormented by this endless loneliness for tens of thousands of years...
{w}{w=0.5}我知道你一定有很多想问的...尽管问吧，我会一一给你解答。¤{w}{w=0.5}I know you must have many questions... Just ask, I will answer them one by one.
你依魏无极所言，重新入定，魏无极的声音在你脑海中轻轻响起。¤As per the words of Wei Wuji, you re-enter deep meditation. The voice of Wei Wuji gently resonates in your mind.
玄微老贼施法将我的魂魄囚禁于此，替他守护这该死的功法传承。直到有人能够成功领悟，我才能挣脱这无尽的枷锁！¤The old thief Xuanwei imprisoned my soul here with his spell, guarding the damn technique inheritance for him. I can only break free from this endless shackle until someone successfully enlightens it.
我现在要将一部分灵魂能量分于你，注意了。¤I will now divide a portion of my soul energy to you, be careful.
除非它发现不了。据我所知，除非我自行从这柄剑中脱离出来，还未曾有人能够发现我的存在。¤Unless it cannot be detected. As far as I know, nobody has been able to detect my existence unless I break free from this sword myself.
不必灰心，我还有一法，或许可以一试。¤Do not be disheartened, I still have a method, perhaps worth giving a try.
没错，自登仙殿建立以来，你是第二个来到这里的人。¤Correct, since the establishment of the Hall of Immortal Ascension, you are the second person to come here.
既然你能够通过玄微老贼的试炼，自然有能力领悟这门功法，今天应该就是我留在这世上的最后一日了，哈哈哈哈哈。¤Since you were able to pass the trial of Xuanwei, you naturally have the ability to comprehend this technique. Today should be my final day in this world, haha.
哈哈哈哈哈，活着？如果这也算活着的话。¤Hahaha, alive? If this can be considered living.
切断五感后，你没有了时间流逝的概念，也不知过了多久，当你再一次睁开眼的时候，发现自己已经来到了一个陌生的房间之中。¤After cutting off the five senses, you lost the concept of time passing, and you did not know how long had passed. When you opened your eyes again, you found yourself in a stranger's room.
不会吧，难道我领悟了功法以后，这登仙殿的试炼就关闭了？¤No way, could it be that after I have enlightened my technique, the trial of the Hall of Immortal Ascension will be closed?
这柄剑...的确，深不可测。¤This sword... indeed, is unfathomable.
他与你不同，他是那玄微老贼的师弟，精通阵法，又对这登仙殿的构造了如指掌。¤He is different from you. He is the junior of the mysterious and subtle old thief, proficient in arrays, and has a thorough understanding of the construction of the Hall of Immortal Ascension.
这便是...《玄清天衍录》，不亏是万年前...所有人都想得到的顶尖功法...¤This is the 《Xuan Qing Tian Yan Lu》, truly the top cultivation technique that everyone desired a thousand years ago...
魏老，你没事吧？¤Wei, are you okay?
哈哈哈，等出了古迹以后，这个消息肯定很快就会传出去。¤Hahaha, after the ancient ruins are released, this news will definitely spread quickly.
哈哈哈哈，终于成功了。¤Hahaha, finally succeeded.
你放开识海，一团蓝色的能量体钻了进来，与你的神识慢慢融为一体。你感觉自己的灵魂不断壮大，进入了一种前所未有的清醒状态。¤You release your divine sense, and a blue energy body drills into it, slowly merging with your soul sense. You feel your soul constantly getting stronger, entering a state of unprecedented clarity.
你扭头一看，果然不知何时，身后的门已经打开，大门之外正是你刚刚进入的主殿，还有一人正站在那块方尖碑前上下打量，所幸还没有注意到你。¤When you turned your head, you realized that the door behind you had opened at some point. Outside the main hall, where you had just entered, a person was standing in front of the square stele, looking up and down. Fortunately, they had not noticed you.
终于又有人来了...你是这一万多年来，第一个走到这里的人类。¤Finally, someone has come...you are the first human to reach here in over ten thousand years.
哼，没错，便是这老贼。就算忘记了我自己的名字，我也不会忘记他！¤Hmph, that's right, it's this old thief. Even if I forget my own name, I won't forget him!
快走吧，怀璧其罪，最好还是不要让别人发现是你得到了这份传承。¤Quickly go, carrying the jade is a crime, it's best not to let others discover that you have obtained this inheritance.
虚影愤怒的咆哮声将你从入定的状态唤醒，你从它的声音中感受到了巨大的愤怒与恐惧。¤The angry roar of the phantom awakened you from a meditative state, and you sensed a great anger and fear from its voice.
习得功法：《玄清天衍录》¤《Xuan Qing Tian Yan Lu》》
不...不，这不可能！¤No...No, this is impossible!
你不是说在我之前还有其他人也来过么？他是不是也没能接受这功法的传承？¤Didn't you say that there were other people who came before me? Did he also not accept the inheritance of this technique?
没错，到时候封印解除，我自然也不会被拘束于此。¤Correct, when the seal is released later, I naturally will not be bound here. 
为什么会这样？既然你能够通过玄微老贼的试炼，怎么可能接受不了这功法的传承！¤Why is it like this? Since you were able to pass Xuanwei's trial, how could you not accept the inheritance of this technique?
看，门已经打开了。¤Look, the door is already open.
你不正是为此而来的么，这传承便是那名扬天下的《玄清天衍录》。¤Isn't this exactly why you came? This inheritance is none other than the renowned 《Xuan Qing Tian Yan Lu》 in the world.
老夫有一死敌，平日里倒也不怕他，但前些日子怪我贪心，想要夺那巫山的仙蛊天锣，便和那蛊真人打了一架。¤I have an arch-nemesis, whom I am not afraid of during ordinary days. But some time ago, due to my greed, I wanted to obtain the Immortal Gu Tian Luo from Mt. Wu and ended up fighting with the true-gu master.
这...这是巫山的虫蛊！你什么时候...？¤This...this is the insect plague from Mt. Wu! When did you...?
老夫孤身一人，没有什么门派约束，你若是敢帮我这个忙，我这身修行的法门就是传授给你也无妨，如何？¤I am a lonely figure with no sect constraint. If you dare help me with this favor, I won’t hesitate to pass down my cultivation techniques to you. What do you think?Note
师兄...把噬血珠交出来，我不想与你为难。¤Senior brother... hand over the Blood Devouring Bead, I don't want to make things difficult for you. The sentence is a direct request for the character's senior brother to give up the Blood Devouring Bead with the implication that there will be consequences if they don't comply.
前辈的大敌定是修为高深，晚辈又能做什么呢？¤The senior's greatest enemy is their high level of cultivation. What can the junior do?
桀桀桀桀，这通心蛊是巫山十大蛊中发作最快的一种，以你的修为，没两个时辰，是压制不住的。¤Hehehe, this Heartwarming Compulsion is the fastest-acting of the Ten Great Gu of Mt. Wu. With your cultivation, you won't be able to suppress it for more than two hours.
你这{xiaozi}眼珠子总是骨碌碌乱转，倒也是个心思灵巧之人。¤Your {xiaozi} eyes always roll around, but you're clever and quick-witted.
（这老道神识远高于我，修为深不可测，说话行事又颇为乖癖，我该怎么应答？）¤(This old Daoist has a divine sense far greater than mine, and his cultivation is unfathomable. He also has quite a peculiar way of speaking and acting. How should I respond?)
不过...你这{xiaozi}来的倒巧，老子恰好遇到点麻烦，你若是能帮我办好这件事，老夫也不会亏待你。¤However... your arrival, {xiaozi}, is quite timely. I happen to be in a bit of trouble, and if you are able to help me successfully resolve this matter, I will not treat you unfairly.
{vpunch=10,0.5}轰！！！¤Boom!
哪家的{xiaozi}这么不长眼，打搅老子修炼，难道没看到这庙前有老夫留下的印记么？¤Which family's {xiaozi} has no eyes? Disturbing my cultivation, don't they see the mark left by this old man in front of the temple?
你一个炼气期的{xiaozi}，他必然不会在意，等时机一到，你便服下这颗丹药，偷袭于他，定能见效。¤You, a qi refining {xiaozi}, he surely won't pay attention. When the time comes, you can take this pill and sneak strike him. It will definitely be effective. Note
这颗“血煞丹”是老夫从巫山换得的秘药，有短暂提升修为的作用，你且收着。若是我那死敌真的寻来，我自有办法与他周旋。¤The Bloodrend Pill is a secret medicine that I obtained in exchange for something from Mt. Wu. It has the effect of temporarily increasing one's cultivation. Keep it with you. If my mortal enemy really comes searching for me, I have my own methods of dealing with him.
我这伤估计还得有一段时间才能养好，这段时间，你便与老夫一同住在这破庙里。¤I estimate that it will take some time for my injury to fully heal. During this time, you will live with me in this broken temple.
桀桀桀桀，你倒是爽快。¤Hehehe, you're quite straightforward.
哼，我有教主大人赐我的凤血魔袍，你剩下这几成功力，又能奈我何？便让你多活两个时辰。¤Hmph, I have the Phoenix Blood Demon Robe that Lord Master gifted me. With only the bit of strength you have left, what can you do to me? I'll let you live for another two hours.
呵，这破庙有什么好，老子若不是受了点伤，一时也没地方可去，怎么会待在这儿。¤Ha, what's so good about this broken temple? If I hadn't been injured and had nowhere else to go for a while, why would I stay here.
天邪子，你不好好地做你那古神教的护教护法，一路追着老子来了宁州，真是辛苦你了。¤Heavenly devil, you didn't properly fulfill your duties as a protector of the ancient god sect, and chased after me all the way to Ningzhou. You've really worked hard.
是，晚辈记下了！¤Yes, the junior notes it down!
{vpunch=10,0.5}咳咳...咳咳...¤*Cough cough...cough cough...* 
多谢前辈！¤Thank you, senior!
嘿，那小子的法门很是邪道，不知对老子用了什么蛊术，令我这一身功力散去了七七八八，如今若是再被我那死敌寻到，肯定不是他的对手。¤Hey, that kid's techniques are quite demonic. I don't know what kind of witchcraft he used on me, it scattered my skills all over the place. If I run into my mortal enemy now, I'm definitely not his match.
前辈这般修为高深的修士，却躲在这处破庙里疗伤，恐怕这麻烦不小吧？¤A senior cultivator with such profound cultivation is hiding in this broken temple to heal. It seems that this could be trouble.
晚辈修为浅薄，恐怕帮不上前辈什么忙。¤My cultivation is shallow, I'm afraid I won't be of much help to senior.
罢了，这事你若不愿，老夫强求也是无用，你自行离开便是了。¤It's fine, if you don't want to do it, it's useless for me to force you. You can leave on your own.
天邪子，你那一套假惺惺的模样，对老子可不管用。这噬血珠是认主的法宝，老子若是没死，你根本操控不了它。¤Heavenly Devil, your fake hypocritical appearance doesn't work on me. This devouring blood bead is an artifact that requires a master. If I hadn't died, you wouldn't be able to control it at all.
晚辈只是想找个地方暂住几日，没想到冲撞了前辈，这...这便离去。¤The junior just wanted to find a place to stay for a few days. I didn't expect to offend the senior. So, I will leave now.
哈哈哈，师兄，那蛊真人使的黑丝蛊，可是天下奇毒，你现在还能剩下几成功力？¤Hahaha, Senior Brother, that expert's use of the Black Silk Compulsion is truly the most poisonous in the world. How much strength do you have left now?
我本想与师兄叙叙旧，既然师兄你没有这个意思，那师弟我便送你上路吧！¤I intended to catch up with my senior brother, but since you don't seem interested, junior brother will send you on your way!
噢？那你不妨运气试试。¤Oh? Then why don't you try your luck.
（此时正是出手的大好时机！）¤(This is a great opportunity to make a move now!)
若是晚辈有能出的上力的地方，定当全力而为！¤If there is a place where the junior can contribute, I will definitely do my best!
你这段时间就待在庙里{color=red}休息{/color}，不要出去走动了。¤During this time, just stay in the temple {color=red}resting{/color}, do not go out and move around.
你注意到原本通向地阵眼空间的传送阵变得黯淡无光，应该是无法继续使用了。¤You notice that the teleportation array that originally led to the space of the earth array eye has become dim and powerless, and it should be unable to be used anymore.
是否前往地阵眼？¤Are you going to the earth array eye?
公孙季说完示意大家可以去尝试破阵了，你也选定一个阵眼前往。¤Gongsun Ji finished speaking and signaled everyone to go try breaking formation. You also choose a formation eye and head there.
据说其中地阵眼是杀阵所在，而南方灼热无比，在下估摸着便是了。至于其他两个阵眼，天当与地相对，人居两者之中。¤The earth array eye is said to be located within the killing formation, while the southern region is extremely hot. As for the other two array eyes, one is located in the sky and the other on the ground, with humans living between them.
该阵分天地人三大阵眼，只需破解所有阵眼，此阵立破。¤The formation divides the heaven, earth, and humans into three major nodes. Only by deciphering all the nodes can the formation be broken.
诸位莫慌，据在下所知，现在我们处于涵虚仙人所设阵法中。此阵虽具备灵气循坏，有生生不息之效能。但经上百年，其威能仍是被削弱许多。¤Don't panic, from what I understand, we are currently inside the array set up by Immortal Hanxu. Although this array has the ability to circulate spiritual energy and maintain an endless cycle of life, its power has been greatly weakened over the past hundred years.
你细细观察之后发现，周遭灵气火旺金衰，阵法空间里也因此灼热无比，其中以南方的烧灼感最为强烈。¤After careful observation, you find that the spiritual energy around you is strong in fire but weak in gold. The space of the array is therefore extremely hot, with the most intense burning sensation coming from the south.
你们顺利通过护府大阵进入仙府后，只见所处环境瞬间转换，大家已然处于仙府内部的另一个阵法中。¤After successfully passing the protective array and entering the immortal mansion, everyone suddenly found themselves in another array within the interior of the mansion.
是否前往人阵眼（左）？¤Are you going to the human formation eye (left)?
是否前往天阵眼？¤Will you go to the Heavenly Array Eye?
是否前往人阵眼（右）？¤Would you like to go to the human formation eye (right)?
是否回到涵虚仙府主阵法？¤Do you return to the main array of Huanxu Palace?
你无意中发现一枚火属性妖丹。¤You accidentally discovered a fire attribute demon core.
你发现一块稀有妖兽的逆鳞。见左右无人，你迅速将之收入囊中。¤You discovered a rare spirit beast's reverse scale. Seeing no one around, you quickly put it into your bag.
你刚进入天阵眼，便发现地上满是残破的傀儡，显然有人已经将入口清理了一番。¤You have just entered the Heavenly Array Eye and discovered that the ground is littered with broken puppets. Obviously, someone has already cleaned the entrance.
你阵道修为太低，看不出什么门道来。¤Your proficiency in array dao cultivation is too low, and you cannot see any tricks.
让你奇怪的是，这种布阵手法让你觉得很是熟悉却又想不起来在哪见过。¤What makes you wonder is that this formation technique seems very familiar to you, yet you cannot remember where you have seen it before.
走上前去却只发现被破除的阵法和满地的傀儡残骸。¤I walked forward only to discover a broken array and scattered puppet debris.
你发现前方有阵法波动。¤You notice a wave of array fluctuations ahead.
经过感知后你发现此处曾布下的是集困、幻、杀一体的阵法或是多重阵法，虽比涵虚仙府的阵法弱上不止一筹，但也是高明的布阵手法。¤After sensing it, you discover that the formation laid out here is a combination of trapping, illusion, and killing formation, or multiple formations. Although it is weaker than the formation in Huanxu Palace, it is still a sophisticated method of deployment.
你仔细检查残骸，发现全都是因高温而融毁，估计是离火门的修士所为。¤You carefully examine the debris and discover that everything has melted due to high temperatures, indicating that it was the work of cultivators from Fire Gate Sect.
你观战了一会，发现百里奇等人不但没击破阵法核心，反倒受伤不轻。倒是他们退下时，阵法核心也变得暗淡起来，并没有追击。¤After observing for a while, you realized that Bai Li Qi and the others not only failed to break the core of the array, but also suffered injuries. However, when they retreated, the core of the array dimmed and did not pursue them.
稍远处传来神通轰击阵法的声音，走近一看，原来是百里奇等人在尝试以力破阵。¤In the distance, the sound of divine skill bombarding an array could be heard. As I approached, I saw that Baili Qi and others were attempting to break formation with their strength.
前进一段时间后，你在附近发现了几个照顾伤者的修士，正是李青麟，慕容颖等人。¤After advancing for some time, you discovered several cultivators nearby who were taking care of injured people, namely Li Qinglin, Murong Ying, and others.
你观察了一会，发现自己完全看不懂这个阵法的路数。¤After observing for a while, you realize that you can't understand the route of this formation at all. The sentence describes the protagonist's inability to comprehend the structure and function of the mentioned formation.
观察许久后，你自认为看破了此阵。走上前去，随意一挥手便是灵力澎湃而出轰击在核心薄弱部位。只听“咔嚓“一声，后者也是随之碎裂。¤After observing for a long time, you believe that you have seen through this formation. You walk forward, casually waving your hand and releasing a surge of spiritual power that strikes the weak point in the center. With a crack sound, the formation shatters.
在你的灵气终于耗尽后，不论是体外的皮肤、毛发，还是体内的经脉、气海都已经燃烧起来。若是不能及时回到公孙季的阵法中，只怕一时三刻间便是要化为飞灰。¤After your spiritual energy is completely depleted, whether it's your skin, hair, meridians, or sea of qi inside your body, they will all start to burn. If you cannot return to the Gongsun Ji's array in time, it is feared that you will turn into ashes in a blink of an eye.
{FirstName}{gongzi}，在下感到此间阵法出现了变动，只怕有什么东西要出来了。¤Dear {FirstName} Gongzi, I feel that this formation here has changed. I'm afraid something is about to come out.
你忙活一阵后，发现这个阵法空间中的狂暴灵气已然平息，与外界无异。¤After busying yourself for a while, you found that the berserk aura in this array space has already subsided, no different from the outside world.
在不知走了多久后，你的灵气护盾终是在狂暴灵气的冲击下碎裂开来。灼热的阵法空间如同火焰炼狱一般，甚至让你感觉经脉都要燃烧起来了。但也只能运功护身，咬牙前进。¤After an unknown amount of time, your spiritual energy shield finally shattered under the impact of the raging spiritual energy. The scorching array space felt like a fiery purgatory, even making you feel like your meridians were about to ignite. But you could only protect yourself with your cultivation and grit your teeth to move forward.
{vpunch=10,0.5}（这里灵气过于狂暴，我要多多留意{color=#d0380a}自身体力{/color}为上！）¤{vpunch=10,0.5} (The spiritual energy here is too turbulent, I must pay more attention to my {color=#d0380a}physical strength{/color}!)
随着不断地前进，你感到阵法空间内的灵气也愈发狂暴，好在你实力够强，还不至于被影响行动。¤As you continue to move forward, you feel the spiritual energy within the array becoming increasingly violent. Luckily, your strength is enough to prevent it from affecting your movements.
在这个炼狱里，你已经只剩这一个念头了。¤In this purgatory, you only have this one thought left.
正当你松一口气时，一个火焰裹挟着的傀儡向你冲来。¤Just as you let out a sigh of relief, a puppet enveloped in flames charges towards you.
还请你再加快些速度，尽量多解除几个阵法核心。¤Please speed up as much as possible and try to dismantle more array cores. 
正当你准备休息一会时，一个傀儡向你袭来。¤Just as you were about to rest for a while, a puppet attacked you.
（前进...前进...前进...）¤(Advance... advance... advance...)
你忙活一阵后，发现这个阵法空间中的灵气消退许多，令人窒息的灼热感也渐渐消散。¤After busying yourself for a while, you discovered that the spiritual energy in the array formation's space had significantly diminished, and the suffocating sensation of scorching heat gradually dissipated.
你在神通的保护下来到公孙季身边，发现他早已在此设下一个不知名阵法，不但隔绝了外界的狂暴灵气，甚至还有恢复的功效。¤Under the protection of divine skills, you arrived by Gong Sunji's side and found that he had already set up an unidentified array here, which not only isolated the violent spiritual energy from the outside, but also had the effect of recovery.
在下刚才探寻到三个阵法核心，但由于此间灵气过于狂暴，在下没来得及将之关闭，只得回到入口设下疗伤阵法，再从长计议。¤I recently discovered three cores of the array, but due to the violent spiritual energy here, I was unable to close them in time. I had to retreat and set up a healing array at the entrance before discussing further plans.
刚踏入地阵眼的传送阵，灼热的灵气浪潮几乎将你压倒在地。还好你下意识地使用神通护住自身，所以几乎没有受伤。¤Just as you step into the teleportation array with the earth array eye, a scorching wave of spiritual energy almost overwhelms you. Luckily, you instinctively use your divine skill to protect yourself, so you barely suffer any injuries. 
体力-1¤Physical strength-1
{FirstName}{gongzi}请来这边。¤{FirstName}, please come over here.
但是在下需要花费一点时间疗伤，不如{FirstName}{gongzi}前去关闭阵法核心，在下于此维持阵法接应{FirstName}{gongzi}。¤However, I need to spend some time healing. How about {FirstName} and {gongzi} go and shut down the core of the array? I will maintain the array here to support {FirstName} and {gongzi}.
你发现了一个阵法机关，并轻而易举地击毁了。¤You have discovered a formation mechanism and easily destroyed it.
你发现一个阵法机关，并轻而易举地击毁了。¤You discovered a formation mechanism and easily destroyed it.
你发现一个阵法机关，并轻而易举地摧毁了。¤You discovered an array mechanism and easily destroyed it.
是否回到涵虚主阵法？¤Are you returning to the Hán Xū main formation?
你说完发现处于另一个空间的倪旭欣并没有听你说完，早已不知道跑哪里去了。¤After you finished speaking, you realized that Ni Xuxin, who was in another space, didn't hear the end of what you said. She had long since disappeared and you didn't know where she went.
我们走的方向确实是相反的，而且应该只是能互相感觉到，而不是在一个空间才对。也不知涵虚仙人葫芦里卖的什么药。¤Our directions are indeed opposite, and we should only be able to feel each other's presence, not be in the same space. I don't know what kind of medicine Hanxu Immortal is selling in his gourd.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你不是去另一个人阵眼了么，怎么会出现在我这边。¤{FirstName} brother, didn't you go to another formation? How come you're here now?
一阵眩晕后，你被传送到另一个阵法空间。令人讶异的是，你居然可以感受到另一个人阵眼中发生的事情。¤After a moment of dizziness, you are teleported to another array space. Surprisingly, you can actually sense what is happening in another person's array vision.
你来到人阵眼所在之处，却只看到一个传送阵。稍有犹豫之后，径直跨入其中。¤You are at the location of the Human Array Eye, but you only see a Teleportation Array. After a moment of hesitation, you step straight into it.
你注意到阵法空间中灵气浓度逐渐增加，约摸着是到了人阵眼核心附近了。找准方向后不久便发现核心所在。¤You notice that the concentration of spiritual energy in the array space gradually increases, roughly indicating that you have reached the core of the human array eye. After finding the direction, you soon discover the location of the core.
你无意中发现一块三星石。¤You accidentally discovered a three stars stone.
这次真是伤得不轻...¤This time, I was seriously injured.
女子突然大叫一声，你吓了一跳，连忙转身戒备，然而眼前却空无一物¤The girl suddenly shouted loudly, making you jump. You quickly turned around on guard, but there was nothing in front of you.
{shidi}，莫怪师姐心狠，这秘密，自然是知道的人越少越好...¤{shidi}, don't blame senior sister for being cruel-hearted. The fewer people who know this secret, the better... okay.
啊！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Ah! {vpunch=10,0.5}
{shidi}，小心身后！¤{shidi} is a respectful term used to address a junior disciple in Chinese Taoist traditions.
正当你觉得奇怪之时，身后剑声已至，你低头一看，一柄利剑已经穿透了你的胸膛，鲜血顺着剑尖往下流淌...你身体一软，便倒在了地上。¤Just as you felt strange, the sound of a sword behind you arrived. You looked down and saw a sharp sword had already pierced through your chest, with blood flowing down the tip of the blade...Your body went limp and you fell to the ground.
发生什么事了，你们是被何人所伤？¤What happened? Who hurt you?
谁？¤Who?
这个...额...此事说来话长...¤This...um...this matter is a long story...
师兄，师姐，我也是竹山宗内弟子，奉命在矿脉巡逻。¤Senior brother, senior sister, I am also a disciple of the Bamboo Mountain Sect and have been ordered to patrol the vein of ore.
你无意中发现一株月灵花。\n¤You accidentally discover a Moonspirit Blossom.
闻言你也尝试着用神识探查了一番，也没有其他发现。便带头深入探查。¤Upon hearing this, you also attempted to use soul sense to investigate, but did not find any other discoveries. Therefore, you took the lead in further exploration.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我刚用神识探查了一番却发现这树的垂根竟能隔绝探查，在这也未发现煞气，看来得深入一番才能有所得了。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, I just used my soul sense to investigate, but found that the roots of this tree can actually block the sense. I also didn't detect any evil energy here, it seems we need to delve deeper to gain something.
海上的漩涡竟是因这大树而起，但也没看它有多大动作,如此伟力真是令人称奇。¤The whirlpool on the sea was actually caused by this large tree, but it didn't seem to have much movement. Such great power is truly amazing.
除了一棵占满你视野的古树外再无它物。没有预期中的仙府或是遗迹，只有如云的顶盖，似定海神柱的茎干，由树枝而下自成迷林的垂根，在海底俨然自成一界。¤Apart from a large ancient tree that occupies your field of vision, there is nothing else. There are no expected immortal residences or ruins, only a cloud-like canopy, a trunk resembling the Dinghai divine pillar, and hanging roots that form a maze from the branches to the ocean floor, creating a distinct world.
以前在无尽之海游历时，你也不是没深入到海底过，但眼前的场景却超乎你的预期。¤Before when you travelled in the Endless Sea, you had also ventured into the depths of the ocean, but the scene before you now exceeds your expectations.
你们二人仗着自身实力，半途便强行脱离了漩涡，没有选择直达起源而是选择了一个相对安全的距离先观望一番。¤The two of you relied on your own strength and forcibly escaped from the vortex halfway through. Instead of directly reaching the origin, you chose to observe from a relatively safe distance first.
你一边思考着，一边冲着倪旭欣可能前进的方向走去，却发现身后那截断裂的根须竟是扫了过来。¤As you pondered, you walked towards the direction Ni Xuxin may have gone, but discovered that the broken root tendrils behind you had swept towards you.
（难道倪兄在刚才的攻击中发现了什么，所以没有等我稳定神魂便已经先行追上去了？那我也快追上去吧。）¤(Did Brother Ni discover something during the previous attack, which is why he already pursued ahead without waiting for me to stabilize my soul? Then I should also catch up quickly.)
倪兄，这神识...¤Brother Ni, this soul sense...
当你满是疑惑的准备与倪旭欣交流一番时，却发现附近根本没有他的身影，除了垂下的根须，剩下的，只有断裂的根须，其中一根还离你很近。¤When you were ready to communicate with Ni Xuxin full of doubts, you found that he was nowhere to be found nearby, except for the drooping root whiskers. The rest were only broken root whiskers, one of which was still very close to you.
你强行稳住状态，但预期的下一波攻击并没有如期而至。¤You forcefully maintained your status, but the expected next strike did not come as scheduled.
当你满是疑惑的准备与倪旭欣交流一番时，却发现前方一个身影一闪而过，身边的倪旭欣也是早已不见。¤When you were ready to communicate with Ni Xuxin full of doubts, you found a figure flashing past ahead, and Ni Xuxin by your side was already gone.
倪兄可是在刚才的攻击中发现了什么？嗯，我还是尽快追上去吧。¤What did Brother Ni discover during the attack just now? Hmm, I should hurry and catch up.
你强行稳住状态，但预期的下一波攻击并没有如期而至。反而是你感到自己对五行大道的领悟又上了一个层次。¤You forcefully maintained your status, but the expected next wave of attack did not come as scheduled. Instead, you felt that your understanding of the five elements of the Great Dao had reached a higher level.
就在你打算与倪旭欣商量一下加速前进时，不知从何处来的神识攻击让你神魂受到剧烈冲击，乃至一阵眩晕，不得不停下未说完的话语，强行凝心静气稳住神魂。¤Just as you were about to discuss with Ni Xuxin about accelerating forward, a sudden attack from an unknown source targeting your soul sense caused a severe impact on your soul, leading to dizziness and forcing you to halt your unfinished words, and resolutely calming your soul down.
倪兄，这垂根外围貌似没有什么危险，不如我们...¤Brother Ni, it seems there is no danger on the outer perimeter of this hanging root. Why don't we...
在前进了一段时间后，你们离古树核心的距离也是越来越近，但依旧没有类似煞气的发现。¤After moving forward for some time, you are getting closer and closer to the core of the ancient tree, but still haven't found any signs of evil energy.
闻言，你赶忙审视自身状态，这才发现古树不知何时{color=#d0380a}扎根{/color}在了你身上！但显然倪旭欣的情况明显更严重一些，所以是整个人都被树根包裹住的状态。¤Upon hearing this, you quickly examined your own status and discovered that the ancient tree had {color=#d0380a}rooted{/color} itself onto you at some point! However, it was clear that Ni Xuxin's situation was much worse, as he was completely enveloped in tree roots.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}别愣着了！古树在寄生我们！¤{FirstName}, {xiongdi}, don't just stand there! The ancient tree is parasitizing us!
犹豫间，疑似倪旭欣的根须居然是用剑气攻击了自身。但没有起到什么效果，就像是倪旭欣真用剑气攻击了古树的根须一般。¤During the hesitation, it seemed that Ni Xuxin's root whiskers were unexpectedly attacked by sword qi, but it had no effect, just like when Ni Xuxin attacked the roots of the ancient tree with sword qi.
（这...难道倪兄也陷入幻觉？所以准备攻击我？）¤(Is it possible that Brother Ni has also fallen into an illusion? Therefore, he is preparing to strike at me?)
你还在思考时，那截根须已经是剑气外放，俨然是倪旭欣准备全力攻击时的架势。¤While you were still pondering, the root whiskers were already releasing sword qi, as if Ni Xuxin was preparing to strike with all his might.
（又是幻觉！！？）¤(Another illusion!!?)
在倪旭欣的呼喊中你迅速脱离思考状态，却发现眼前本该是倪少位置的，居然又是断裂的神树根须！¤In response to Ni Xuxin's call, you quickly snap out of your thought status, only to find that the broken root whiskers of the god tree should have been in Ni Shao's position!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}！小心！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤{FirstName} Brother! Be careful!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
海底古树旁的两人陷入了沉思。¤The two people next to the ancient tree under the sea fell into contemplation.
但他们若是能活着出去，无尽之海的修士对漩涡底下的情况应该会了解更多才对。¤But if they can survive and get out, the cultivators of the endless sea should have a better understanding of the situation beneath the whirlpool.
仔细想来，我们一路走到这里，除了幻觉也没有遭遇过其他的危险...¤Upon closer inspection, we have traveled here without encountering any other dangers besides illusions.
能活着到海底的修士应该主要是在幻觉中互相残杀至死的，但...那些单独被卷入海底的修士又是怎么陨落的呢？¤The cultivators who can survive to the bottom of the sea are mainly killing each other in illusions, but...how did those cultivators who were separately dragged into the sea fall?
所以那些被漩涡吸入的人都是在幻觉中死去的？¤So, all the people sucked into the vortex died while under an illusion?
不，恐怕这里从来都没有什么魔剑，至于我们之前猜测的煞气，也只是就是刚才遇到过的幻觉。¤No, I'm afraid there was never any demon sword here. As for the demonic energy we suspected earlier, it was just an illusion we encountered just now.
难道魔剑在这树干里？¤Could the demon sword be in this tree trunk?
这里好像并没有煞气或者类似的异象，更不用说魔剑了，难道...¤It seems that there is no evil aura or similar anomaly here, let alone a demon sword, could it be...
二人一路小心提防，终于是来到了神树茎干前。¤The two proceeded cautiously and finally arrived before the trunk of the God Tree.
（这...倪兄不会是又中招了吧？但这次没有神识攻击，应该...是不同情况。）¤(This... Brother Ni won't be affected again, right? But this time there wasn't a soul sense attack, so it should be a different situation.)
（难道，我陷入幻觉了？那我应该等他帮我解开幻觉，还是说尝试下自救？）¤(Am I experiencing an illusion? Should I wait for him to help me dispel this illusion, or should I try to save myself?)
在倪旭欣的呼喊中你迅速脱离思考状态，却发现眼前本该是倪少位置的，居然是断裂的神树根须！¤In Ni Xuxin's call, you quickly break away from the thinking status, but find that what should have been Ni Shao's position in front of you is actually the broken roots of the god tree!
你好不容易追上倪旭欣，他却直接对你展开了攻击。¤You finally caught up with Ni Xuxin, but he immediately launched a strike against you.
附近没有倪旭欣的身影，估计是已经走远了。倒是有几朵道蕴流转的小花长在根须之上。¤There is no sign of Ni Xuxin nearby, probably already gone far away. However, there are a few small flowers with Dao presence blooming on the root whiskers.
你顺手将小花摘下放入储物袋中。¤You have picked the small flower and placed it in the storage pouch without any effort.
哼，那就来吧。¤Hmph, then come on.
噢？我看不出有什么理由要把这里让给你，有本事赢了我再说。¤Oh? I don't see any reason why I should give this to you. Show me your skills and beat me first.
{$NickName}名声在外，我早有听闻。既然你开口了，今日我便卖你这个面子，请吧。¤I have heard of {$NickName}'s reputation for a long time. Since you have spoken, I will give you face today. Please go ahead.
我看上这里的矿脉了，不知道友可否割爱，把这里让给我？¤I have my eyes on the vein of ore here. I don't know if you would be willing to give it up and let me have it.
噢？我看不出有什么理由要把这里让给你。¤Oh? I don't see any reason to give this to you.
既然道友你有需要，那我让与你便是，请！¤Since you, fellow daoist, have a requirement, then I will give it to you. Please!
我看上这里的矿脉了，按规矩来比试比试吧。谁赢了，这里就归谁。¤I have my eyes on this vein of ore here. Let's follow the rules and have a competition. Whoever wins will own this place.
既然是{$NickName}你有需要，那我让与你便是，请！¤If it is something that you need, {$NickName}, then I will give it to you, please!
在下自然不是前辈的对手，不劳您动手，在下自己离开便是...¤I am naturally no match for a senior like you, there's no need for you to take action, as I will leave on my own...
映入眼帘的是一方水池。¤What I see before me is a small body of water.
道友稍后。¤Daoist friend, wait a moment.
有劳了。¤Thank you for your hard work.
请~¤Please ~
此次药浴的材料由我承担，为了感谢{FirstName}道友为我龙族前后奔波。¤I will be responsible for the materials for this medicinal bath, as a thank you to {FirstName} fellow daoist for their tireless efforts before and after for our Dragon Clan.
先祖九玄在创出引雷锻体之法后，于阵内设有药池以雷电之力辅助吸收重元换血的药性，这样虽没有雷鸣海九霄雷狱的功效，但却也胜在稳扎稳打过程并无危险¤After the ancestor Jiuxuan created the Lightning Forged Body technique, he set up a medicine pool inside the formation to assist in absorbing the medicinal properties of heavy element blood with the power of thunder and lightning. While it does not have the same effect as the Thunder Sea or the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison, it is safer and more stable in the process.
只见他一掐法诀，上百株鲜红的药草从他的储物袋飞出，化作药液进入眼前的水池，一阵浓郁的药香弥散在空中。¤Upon seeing this, he quickly formed a hand seal, causing over a hundred fresh, red medicinal herbs to fly out from his storage pouch and transform into a medicinal liquid that entered the pool in front of him. A strong medicinal fragrance diffused in the air.
你方一入阵，四周的引雷柱就开始运转，阵法的上方凝聚了一片雷云。¤As soon as your side enters the formation, the lightning pillars around it begin to operate, and a thundercloud gathers above the formation.
“轰”¤Boom
不愧是{FirstName}道友，锻体的效果很是不错。¤Indeed, {FirstName} fellow daoist, the effect of body forging technique is impressive.
一道雷电命中你的肉身，狂暴肆虐的能量在你的体内游走，此时药池中的药液也包裹住你不断的修复你的肉身，在不断的破坏与新生中你明显感觉到肉身强度在提升。¤A thunderbolt strikes your body, wild and raging energy wandering inside of you. At this moment, the medicinal liquid in the medicine pool continuously wraps around you, repairing your body. Through constant destruction and rebirth, you clearly feel the strength of your body increasing.
嗯？¤Hmm?
没想到{FirstName}道友已是登峰造极的体修大家了，之前倒是我班门弄斧了。¤I didn't expect that fellow daoist {FirstName} has already reached the peak of physical cultivation. I was the one who overestimated my abilities before.
一道雷电命中你的肉身，但是以你在体道的修为这雷电完全不能伤你分毫，其中蕴含的能量被你全数吸收，此时药池中的药液也包裹住你，其中的药力不断被吸收。¤A thunderbolt strikes your flesh, but with your cultivation in the Body Dao, this thunderbolt cannot harm you in the slightest. The energy contained within it is completely absorbed by you. At this moment, the medicinal liquid in the medicinal pool also envelops you, and its medicinal power is constantly being absorbed.
之后如此往复又来了八道天雷，对你而言波澜不惊的渡过了。¤Afterwards, this repeated eight times with heavenly lightning, and you calmly crossed over without any waves.
此时你更感觉到这天雷中的能量一部分被体内的九龙天雷火所吸收。¤At this moment, you feel even more that a part of the energy in this heavenly thunder is being absorbed by the nine dragons heavenly thunder fire within your body.
你伸出左掌九龙天雷火出现在掌心，在火焰四周不断有电花涌动，一缕无形的能量没入火焰，随后火焰的焰色逐渐变成纯粹的橙红色，散发一阵天地之威。¤You extend your left hand and the nine dragons heavenly thunder fire appears in the palm. There are constantly surging electric flowers around the flame, and an invisible energy infiltrates the flame. Then the flame gradually turns into a pure orange-red color, emitting a burst of the power of heaven and earth.
此时一股空灵的能量游离在九龙天雷火周围。¤At this moment, a ethereal energy is floating around the Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire.
嘶~九天劫火！！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Hiss~ Nine Days of Tribulation Fire!!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
我还要留在这里维护阵法，不送了。¤I will stay here to maintain the array. No need to see me off.
不过这仅是假设，引雷锻体一生仅有第一次有效果，这个假设连大圣自己都没有达成。恭喜道友了，获得这等异火真是令人羡慕。¤However, this is only a hypothesis. The lightning forged body only has an effect the first time in life, a hypothesis that even the Great Sage himself has not achieved. Congratulations, fellow daoist, on gaining such envy-worthy different fire.
先祖九玄曾在随笔中假设，我族九龙天雷火源自雷鸣海九霄雷狱中的劫火，若是有人身怀此火入阵锻体若是捕捉到那一缕先天之气可使体内异火进化为先天劫火。¤According to the writing of our ancestor Jiuxuan, our tribe's Nine Dragons Heavenly Thunder Fire originated from the calamitous fire in the Thunder Prison of the Ninth Heaven in the Thunder Sea. If someone possesses this fire and enters the Body Forging formation, and manages to capture a strand of Innate Qi, it can cause the internal Different Fire to evolve into an Innate Calamitous Fire.
道友何事？¤What is it, fellow daoist?
还是先前往化龙池吧。¤Let's go to the Dragon Transformation Pond first.
你感受到血脉深处似有什么被引动了。¤You feel like something has been stirred deep within your bloodline.
道友，快！！！¤Daoist friend, hurry!!!
说罢，只见其于体内飞出一道法印飞向龙珠，并施展法术。¤After finishing speaking, he only saw a spell fly out of his body towards the Dragon Ball, and he used it.
道友，请进入化龙池，切记不要抵抗这龙珠之中的龙脉之力。¤Fellow Daoist, please enter the Dragon Transformation Pond, and remember not to resist the power of dragon veins within the Dragon Pearl.
你看到敖玄浮于半空之中，他身旁便是龙珠，海量精纯的龙脉之力从中磅礴而出。¤You see Aoxuan floating in midair, with Dragon Balls beside him. The massive and pure power of dragon veins surges forth from within them.
忽然，周围的龙脉之力，成气旋状向你体内涌入。¤Suddenly, the dragon vein's power in the surroundings surged into your body in a cyclonic manner.
嗯？这是？¤Hmm? What is this?
哈哈哈，没想到道友竟身怀我龙族血脉乃是我龙族旁支，也不知为何此前我竟没有发现。¤Hahaha, I never expected that my fellow daoist possesses the bloodline of my dragon clan. It turns out they are a branch of my dragon clan, and I'm not sure why I didn't notice it before.
既如此在下便助道友一臂之力。¤If that's the case, then I will lend a helping hand to my fellow daoist.
只见其逼出一滴精血飞入你的额头，精血没入之后你逐渐陷入了空灵状态。¤You saw him extract a drop of blood that flew into your forehead. After the blood was absorbed, you gradually fell into a trance-like state.
道友终于醒了，看道友的状态应是大有收获，敖玄就恭喜道友了。¤Fellow daoist has finally awakened, judging from fellow daoist's status, there should have been great gains. Ao Xuan congratulates fellow daoist.
远处一道遁光向你飞来。¤A fleeing light is flying towards you from afar.
此番机缘全凭道友成全，这份人情我记下了。¤This opportunity relies entirely on the help of my fellow daoist, and I will remember this favor.
道友客气了，我先走一步，道友若是有事可以来皇龙殿找我。¤Fellow daoist, no need for courtesy. I'll take my leave first. If you have any matters, you can come to the Royal Dragon Palace to find me.
道友不要抗拒，让龙脉之力为你淬体。¤Do not resist, fellow daoist, let the power of dragon veins temper your body.
周围的龙脉之力疯狂的向你体内涌入。¤The power of dragon veins around you rushes into your body crazily.
九幽数百米长的触手蜷缩于此，一动不动。它的伤势似乎很重，甚至没有发现你已经追了过来。你决定...？¤Nine hundred meters long tentacles curl here, motionless. Its injuries seem severe, and it hasn't noticed you have caught up. You decide...?
你全力运转神通，向九幽攻去。谁知这蓄势一击竟似打在空气中一般，九幽的躯体化作一团黑雾倏然散开，几息之间便将你笼罩在其中。¤You activate your divine skill and charge towards Jiu You. Unexpectedly, your gathered momentum strike seems to hit nothing but air, causing Jiu You's body to transform into a black mist that quickly engulfs you within a few breaths.
你心下一惊，连忙向后闪去，想要离开这团诡异的黑雾，却发现不知何时，双脚已被九幽的触手紧紧缠住，动弹不得！¤Your heart startled and hurriedly pivoted backwards, wanting to escape from this strange black mist. However, you realized that you were already tightly bound by the tentacles of Nine Nether, unable to move!
九幽作为无尽之海四大妖圣之一，恐怕没有这么简单就被打败，你决定小心试探一番。¤As one of the Four Demon Saints of the Endless Sea, Jiuyou probably won't be defeated so easily. You decide to carefully test the waters.
你随手掐了一个小法诀，向九幽攻去。谁知这道法术竟似打在空气中一般，九幽的躯体化作一团黑雾倏然散开。¤You cast a small spell with a flick of your wrist and attacked Jiu You. Unexpectedly, the spell seemed to hit thin air and Jiu You's body turned into a mass of black mist and dissipated.
你早有防备，闪身躲过了暗中向你伸来的数条触须，但转瞬之间已被滚滚黑雾笼罩在了其中。¤You were already on guard, dodging several tentacles that were reaching out to you in the dark. But in the next moment, you were completely shrouded in rolling black mist.
对方深吸一口气，似是下了什么决定。¤The other party took a deep breath, as if making some kind of decision.
对方松了一口气，开口说道。¤The other party breathed a sigh of relief and spoke.
道友可知，我龙族的客卿？¤Fellow daoist, do you know that I am a guest of the dragon clan?
而我龙族的客卿，不仅可以去我族坤龙殿交易我龙族宝物、功法典籍，若是贡献突出还可以前往化龙池，进行一场化龙血浴。¤And as a guest of our Dragon Clan, not only can you trade for our treasures and technique manuscripts in our Kun Dragon Palace, but if you make notable contributions, you can even go to the Dragon Transformation Pond for a blood bath.
我龙族虽是孤悬于海外，但是若有外族强者能获得我族的认可，也可以成为我龙族的客卿。¤Although our Dragon Clan is isolated overseas, if there are foreign strong individuals who gain our approval, they can also become guests of our Dragon Clan.
坤龙殿乃是我龙族宝库，其中不仅仅有我龙族自己的独有之物，更有我族自上古年间收集的奇珍异宝。¤The Kun Dragon Palace is our dragon clan's treasure trove, which contains not only our dragon clan's unique belongings, but also rare and precious items that our clan has collected since ancient times.
我龙族有一套传承自上古的秘法，介以化龙池之中的龙珠浴血跃龙门，自身能融合一丝龙族血脉，百里家初代家主便是如此。¤My Dragon Clan has a set of secret techniques inherited from ancient times, using the Dragon Balls in the Dragon Transformation Pond to bathe in blood and leap over the Dragon Gate. They can merge with a trace of Dragon Bloodline. The first generation patriarch of the Baili Family also did this.
道友可愿意成为我族客卿。¤Would fellow daoist be willing to become a guest of our clan?
{xiaozi}，可别冲动，这龙族可是有化神妖圣坐镇，能让他们这么大出血，这差事肯定不简单。¤{xiaozi}, don't be impulsive. The Dragon Clan has a Demon Saint who has undergone Deity Transformation presiding over them. It's definitely not easy for them to suffer such heavy losses.
嗯（我应该...）¤Uh, (I should...)
龙族乃是海上霸主，更有四大妖圣之一的覆海大圣坐镇，也需要我这一介外人？道友若不如实道来，恕我不能答应。¤The dragon clan is the ruler of the sea, and is under the command of one of the Four Great Demon Saints, the Overwhelming Sea Saint. Do they still need an outsider like me? If my fellow daoist doesn't speak truthfully, I'm afraid I can't promise anything.
龙族乃是海上霸主，更有四大妖圣之一的覆海大圣坐镇，也需要我这一介外人？道友若不如实到来，恕我不能答应。¤The dragon clan is the ruler of the sea, and it is also under the control of one of the four great demon saints, the overwhelming sea saint. Do they still need me, an outsider? If my fellow daoist does not come truthfully, I am afraid I cannot promise anything.
既然如此，敖灵也不便勉强，这就送道友出去。¤Since that's the case, Ao Ling won't force it and will just see our fellow daoist off.
海上霸主？我龙族经历上古鲲龙之战早已不复从前，连龙宫都已经丢了，父亲也在闭死关欲突破化神不理外务，东海近来又有异动，浪方那老妖怪也不安分，此时正值多事之秋，正需要道友这样的修为精深之人，你若是还有顾虑但问无妨。¤Sea Overlord? My Dragon Clan has long since changed since the battle of the ancient Kunlun Dragon. We have even lost control of the Dragon Palace, and my father is currently in seclusion attempting to undergo a breakthrough deity transformation. Furthermore, there have been recent disturbances in the East Sea, and even the old monster Wave Fang is not at peace. This is a time of many crises, and we need cultivators like you with profound cultivation. If you have any concerns, please ask without hesitation.
对方面露苦涩。¤The other side shows bitterness.
上古时期，我龙族本是居于东海，筑有龙宫，天下鳞甲来朝。不过鲲族狼子野心、冒然来袭，此战撼天动地上古龙宫更是被击沉于海底。最终我龙族虽惨胜，却也不得不退居于化龙海。¤In ancient times, my dragon clan resided in the East Sea, where we built the Dragon Palace and received visits from the scales of the world. However, the Kun clan's wild ambitions led them to launch a sudden attack, and in this battle, the ancient Dragon Palace was sunk to the bottom of the sea with earth-shattering force. Although we, the dragon clan, emerged victorious from this tragic conflict, we were forced to retreat to the Shifting Dragon Sea.
浪方海鲲族，乃是上古鲲鹏后裔，本与我龙族相安无事，但不知道从何处得到了一门邪法《吞龙决》，引动上古鲲鹏血脉吞噬龙族以精进修为。¤The Sea Kun Clan of the Langfang Sea is descended from the ancient Kunpeng, and was originally peaceful with our Dragon Clan. However, they somehow obtained a wicked technique called the 《Dragon Devouring Art》, which has led them to devour members of our clan to enhance their cultivation. I don't know how they obtained it.
道友，有所不知，覆海大圣正是家父。¤Fellow daoist, you are unaware that the overwhelming sea saint is my father.
上古龙宫虽是沉没于海底，但近来偶有碎片浮于海面之上，我族派人调查但其中甚是凶险，甚至有元婴期长老陨落其中。¤Although the ancient dragon palace has sunk to the bottom of the sea, recently, some fragments have occasionally floated to the surface of the sea. Our clan sent people to investigate, but it was very dangerous, and even an elder in the nascent soul stage fell among them.
唉....实不相瞒，陨落其中的乃是我的兄长敖玄，一身修为元婴巅峰仅次于父亲，兄长最后一点消息乃是告诫龙族，其中尽是龙尸死气切勿靠近。故而我们也不甚了解其中诡谲。¤Alas...to be honest, my deceased elder brother was Ao Xuan, whose cultivation was only second to our father and had reached the peak of Nascent Soul. His last message was a warning to the Dragon Clan to stay away from the Death Qi from the Dragon Corpse, but we don't fully understand the intricacies of it.
.......节哀。¤Condolences.
目前当务之急是前往东海调查那处龙宫碎片，道友可愿成为龙族客卿助我一臂之力？¤Currently, the most pressing matter is to investigate the fragment of the Dragon Palace in the East Sea. Would fellow daoist be willing to become a guest of the Dragon Clan and lend me a hand?
唉....既然如此，敖灵也不便勉强，这就送道友出去。¤Sigh...since it's like this, Ao Ling won't force it and will escort fellow daoist out.
那就多谢道友了，这龙鳞印是我龙族客卿信物，事不宜迟东海之行还望道友速速动身。¤Thank you fellow daoist, this dragon scale seal is a token of my dragon clan's guest. We must not delay our trip to the East Sea, so I hope fellow daoist will set off quickly.
敖灵还有一不情之请，道友进入那陨龙之地还请祭起这龙鳞印，感应我兄长...¤Ao Ling has one request that may be inconvenient. Fellow Daoist, when entering the Land of the Fallen Dragons, please activate this Dragon Scale Seal to sense my elder brother...
道友，是要我前去收敛令兄的尸身？¤Do you want me to go and collect the body of our fellow daoist?
兄长的命符虽失去感应，但是他一身修为几近化神，就是浪方老贼都不一定能留住他，故而敖灵还有一丝幻想。此事不论成败，我个人都将拿出一枚天道果作为酬劳。¤Although my elder brother's life symbol has lost its responsiveness, his cultivation is almost at the level of deity transformation. Even the notorious Lang Fang thief may not be able to capture him, so Ao Ling still holds a glimmer of hope. Whether this matter succeeds or fails, I personally will offer a Heavenly Dao Fruit as compensation.
我尽力而为。¤I will do my best.
还请道友火速行事。¤Please act swiftly, fellow Daoist.
道友，在龙宫中有何发现？¤Fellow daoist, what have you discovered in the dragon palace?
刚刚进入龙宫，你就能看到敖玄敖灵兄妹已经在等待你了。¤Just entered the Dragon Palace, and you can see that Aoxuan and Aoling siblings are already waiting for you.
敖玄？敖灵？¤Ao Xuan? Ao Ling?
你还未开口，你携带的龙魂石就自己飞了出来。¤You haven't even spoken yet, but the dragon soul stone you carried flew out on its own.
一股浩瀚的神识扫过这个龙宫。¤A vast soul sense swept over this dragon palace.
敖玄暗暗将妹妹挡在身后，你能感受到龙宫的大阵开始飞速运转了，数道强横的气息也从各个建筑爆发而出。¤Ao Xuan secretly blocked his younger sister behind him. You could feel that the Dragon Palace's great formation had begun rapidly operating, and several powerful auras burst forth from various buildings.
晚辈正是，敢问前辈来我龙族有何指教。¤I am a junior, may I ask what guidance does Senior have for me in coming to my Dragon Clan.
尔等不必惊慌，本座龙皇九霄。¤Do not panic, for I am the Dragon Emperor of the Nine Heavens.
说罢，一股王者威压席卷了这片空间，你感受到了一种源自血脉的服从。¤After speaking, a wave of kingly might suppression swept through the area, and you felt an obedience that emanated from your bloodline.
说罢，一股王者威压席卷了这片空间，对面敖灵、敖玄兄妹似有屈膝的迹象。¤After finishing speaking, a wave of kingly might suppression swept through this space, and the brother and sister, Ao Ling and Ao Xuan, on the opposite side seemed to show signs of kneeling.
不过这威压仅持续一瞬间便收了回去。¤However, this might suppression lasted only for a moment before retracting.
四处遁光四起，皆立于敖玄敖灵兄妹身后，你看到焚天、煮海也在其中。¤Four escape lights scattered around, all standing behind the siblings Ao Xuan and Ao Ling. You can see Burning Heaven and Boiling Sea among them.
拜见老祖！！¤Pay respect to the ancestor!!
此番多亏了小友，我才得以脱困。¤This time I was able to escape my predicament thanks to the young friend.
你们父亲在哪里？叫他来见我。¤Where is your father? Tell him to come see me.
敖玄面露难色。¤Ao Xuan showed a difficult expression on his face.
父亲他前几日尝试化神失败，修为大退目前正在闭死关疗伤。¤My father attempted deity transformation a few days ago but failed, causing a significant drop in his cultivation level. He is currently in seclusion, healing from his injuries.
唉...我先于龙墓温养神魂，等他出关命他来见我！¤Ah...I will cultivate my soul in the Dragon's Tomb, and wait for him to come see me after he finishes his seclusion!
说罢龙魂石直飞龙墓。¤After speaking, the Dragon Soul Stone flew straight towards the Dragon Tomb.
恭送老祖！！¤Respectfully see off the ancestor!
{FirstName}道友，究竟是何情况？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, what exactly is the situation?
你将上古龙宫之中的情况告诉他。¤You inform him of the situation within the ancient dragon palace.
原来如此，此番凶险，道友护送老祖归来，多谢道友了！¤I see, it was like that. This was a dangerous journey. Fellow daoist escorted our ancestor back, thank you very much, fellow daoist!
说罢敖玄拱手作揖。¤Having said that, Ao Xuan cupped his hands in salute.
族内事务繁重我先走一步，道友若是有事可来皇龙殿找我。¤There are many family affairs to attend to, I'll take my leave. If you have any business, Fellow Daoist, you can find me at the Royal Dragon Palace.
我也在替我父亲搜寻化神所用的丹药，虽然丹灵果我现下没有，但这龙血草乃是替代之物此番就赠与道友了。¤I am also searching for the pills used for my father's deity transformation. Although I don't have spirit dan fruit at the moment, this dragon blood grass is a substitute that I will gift to my fellow daoist.
近些年我龙族式微，鲲族在此獠的带领下不断滋扰我族，道友此举当是为我族除去一心腹大患。¤In recent years, my dragon clan has declined, and under the leadership of Kuin, the Kun clan has constantly harassed our clan. Fellow daoist, this action is probably to eliminate our one heart's greatest threat. 
此时你收到一道神识传音。¤At this moment, you receive a transmission of soul sense.
言毕，焚天长老上前一步。¤Upon speaking, the Burning Heaven Elder stepped forward.
还请前辈指点。\n¤Please give me directions, senior.
小友战力惊天竟能越级击杀化神妖圣，看来蜕凡成仙只日可见。¤Young friend's strength is shocking, as they were able to surpass their level and kill a deity-transformed demon saint. It seems like they will be able to ascend to immortality soon.
多谢敖灵道友，谬赞了。¤Thank you, Fellow Daoist Ao Ling, for your kind words of praise.
{FirstName}道友，不知能否移步大殿，敖玄有事相商。¤Dear fellow daoist {FirstName}, may I request your presence in the main hall? Ao Xuan wishes to discuss important matters with you.
道友，在浪方海域击杀那鲲族余孽的事已然传遍各方威震四海了。¤Fellow daoist, the news of you killing the remaining members of the Kun Clan in the Langfang Sea has already spread across all corners and shocked the Four Seas.
道友，这冰心寒玉、仙淼铜是我龙宫珍藏的六品炼器材料，这就赠与道友。¤Fellow daoist, these ice heart cold jade and immortal copper are six-grade refining materials from my Dragon Palace's collection, and I am giving them to you as a gift.
此番大恩，我龙族上下必会铭记，若有需要我龙族必不推辞。¤This great kindness, my Dragon Clan will surely remember, and if there is a need, my Dragon Clan will not hesitate to help.
{FirstName}道友，小女子敖灵，目前暂代族长之位。。¤Dear fellow daoist {FirstName}, I am Ao Ling. Currently, I am temporarily taking on the position of the clan leader.
不过，化神与其他境界之间堪称仙凡之别，这蜕凡成仙不知多少天骄被阻于此。¤However, the transformation into a deity is truly distinguished from other realms, and countless geniuses have been obstructed in their attempts to transcend their mortal status.
刚刚进入龙宫，你就发现一团魂火浮于空中。¤Just as you entered the Dragon Palace, you noticed a cluster of soul fire floating in the air.
不过小友你于我龙族有大恩，你且随我来。¤However, young friend, you have a great favor to my Dragon Clan. You should come with me.
确实并非亲眼所见，乃是我族中长老前去查探时感应到了道友独有的龙鳞印上的气息罢了¤The true situation was not witnessed with my own eyes, but rather our clan's elder sensed the unique aura from the fellow daoist's dragon scale seal during their investigation.
道友，那鲲族余孽与人交手后落败身死。不知是否是道友所为？¤Dear fellow daoist, did you have any involvement in the defeat and death of the remaining members of the Kun clan during their battle with humans?
小友，观你气息已是元婴后期，看来蜕凡成仙只日可见。¤Dear friend, observing your aura, you have already reached the late Nascent Soul stage, it appears that your transformation into an immortal is not far off.
不过小友你于我龙族有大恩，当你突破至元婴后期乃至化神期便可来龙墓寻我。¤However, young friend, you have a great debt to my dragon clan. Once you break through to the late nascent soul stage and even the void transformation stage, you can come to the dragon tomb to find me.
抵达海底龙宫，你看到远处一个女子正在等你。¤Upon arriving at the Dragon Palace beneath the sea, you see a woman in the distance waiting for you.
刚刚进入龙宫，你就发现一团魂火浮于空中，敖灵、敖玄等人皆立于广场之上迎接你。¤Just as you entered the Dragon Palace, you noticed a group of soul fires floating in the air, with Ao Ling, Ao Xuan, and others standing on the square to welcome you.
不过，元婴化神之间堪称仙凡之别，这蜕凡成仙不知多少天骄被阻于此。¤However, the difference between nascent soul and deity transformation is like that between immortals and mortals. Many talented individuals have been hindered in their transformation from mortal to immortal.
确实并非亲眼所见，乃是我族中长老前去查探时感应到了道友独有的龙鳞印上的气息罢了。¤It is indeed not something seen with one's own eyes, but rather a sensation felt by the elder of our clan when they went to investigate the unique aura of the fellow daoist's dragon scale seal.
称不上指点，不过是一点小帮助罢了。龙墓乃是我龙族禁地，莫说外人就是焚天煮海他们也没有资格进入。¤Can't be called guidance, just a little help. Dragon Tomb is the forbidden land of my Dragon Clan. Not to mention outsiders, even Burning Heaven and Boiling Seas are not qualified to enter.
浪方海域¤Langfang Sea Region.
道友威名赫赫，敖灵早有耳闻，今日得见果然名不虚传。¤Fellow daoist's reputation precedes you, Ao Ling has long heard of it, and to see it today proves that your name is well deserved.
对方看着你欲言又止...¤The other person looked at you with hesitation and a desire to speak.
此番百里家归还龙珠，阁下也是出力甚多，我在此谢过道友了。这两颗龙皇果还望道友收下。¤This time the Baili family has returned the Dragon Ball, and you have also contributed a lot. I thank fellow daoist here. Please also accept these two Sovereign Drakefruits.
正是。不过我速速离去应是无人发现吧？¤Indeed. However, I should be able to get out of the way quickly without being noticed, right?
你且随我来。¤You come with me.
刚刚进入龙宫，敖灵、敖玄等人皆立于广场之上迎接你。¤Just entered the Dragon Palace, Ao Ling, Ao Xuan and others stood on the square to welcome you.
刚刚进入龙宫，敖灵等人皆立于广场之上迎接你。¤Upon entering the Dragon Palace just now, Ao Ling and others stood on the square to welcome you.
小友，观你气息已是化神强者，当日见你便觉得根骨惊奇他日必成就不低，没曾想这短短百年便已成化神强者。¤Dear young friend, I can sense that you have already achieved deity transformation. When I first met you, I was amazed by your potential and believed that you would achieve great success in the future. I never expected that you would become a deity transformer in just a hundred years.
你说的可是此物？¤Are you talking about this thing?
引雷柱？¤Lightning pillar?
我会留意的。¤I will keep an eye on it.
道友，雷狱阵需要成为我族供奉才能进入。¤Fellow Daoist, the Lightning Prison Array requires one to become a Guest Elder of our clan in order to enter.
只见他手掐数道法诀，随着引雷柱的补全阵法开始运转。¤I see him pinch several hand gestures, and with the completion of the lightning pillar, the formation began to operate.
道友，雷狱阵乃是我龙族自上古传下来的引雷锻体之法。¤Fellow Daoist, the Lightning Prison Array is the method of lightning forging the body that has been passed down by my Dragon Clan since ancient times.
不过，目前阵基缺失已经不能运转了。¤However, currently the formation's missing foundation cannot operate anymore.
九霄雷狱阵的阵基名唤{color=#d0380a}“引雷柱”{/color}，它的炼制手法自上古之后就已经遗失了。¤The base of the Eternal Lightning Prison Formation is called the Lightning Pillar, and its refining method has been lost since ancient times.
不过，上古龙宫沉于{color=#d0380a}东海{/color}之下，传闻有人在东海的龙宫遗迹之中寻到过此物。¤However, the Ancient Dragon Palace is submerged beneath the {color=#d0380a}East Sea{/color}, and there are rumors that someone has found this object within the ruins of the Dragon Palace in the East Sea.
多谢道友为我龙宫重建雷狱阵。¤Thank you fellow daoist for helping me rebuild the lightning prison array in my dragon palace.
道友，可愿意帮助我龙宫修复雷狱阵？¤Fellow Daoist, would you be willing to help me repair the Lightning Prison Array in my Dragon Palace?
多谢道友相助，不过这雷狱阵还需要2根引雷柱才能完全恢复。¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for helping. However, this lightning prison array still needs two lightning pillars to fully recover.
修复雷狱阵需要3根引雷柱，目前已经收集到{$TempValue}根了。¤To repair the Lightning Prison Array, 3 Lightning Pillars are required. Currently, {$TempValue} have been collected.
多谢道友相助。¤Thank you for the help, fellow Daoist.
我这就开始着手修复阵法。¤I will begin repairing the array now.
介时由我为道友主持阵法，道友入阵引雷锻体。¤At this time, I, as a fellow daoist, will supervise the array. Fellow daoist will enter the array and undergo lightning forged body.
道友可知这引雷锻体的过程是什么样的？我入阵又需要什么准备？¤Can fellow daoists know what the process of lightning forged body is? What preparations do I need to make before entering the formation?
据记载入阵者体道须有融会贯通的境界，如若不然可能会有危险。¤According to records, those who enter the formation must have a good understanding of the body dao, otherwise there may be danger.
雷鸣海每隔数百年都会有天地异象九霄雷狱降世，据先祖记载其中雷电乃是先天之雷若能抗住雷劫并且吸收对锻体大有裨益。¤The Thunder Sea experiences heavenly and earthly phenomena every few hundred years, with the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison descending upon it. According to ancestral records, the thunder and lightning in the Thunder Sea are pre-natal thunder, which can bring great benefits to body forging if one can withstand the thunder kalpa and absorb it.
雷狱阵乃是我族前辈九玄大圣，根据雷鸣海九霄雷狱所创，用以引雷锻体。¤The Lightning Prison Array is created by our senior, Jiu Xuan Great Sage, according to the Thunder Sea's Nine Heavens Thunder Prison. It is used for Lightning-Forged Body cultivation.
以我的体道修为还是不要冒险了。¤With my level of body dao cultivation, it's better not to take risks.
道友，何事？¤Fellow Daoist, what's the matter?
我该如何进入雷鸣海九霄雷狱呢？¤How can I enter the Thunder Sea's Nine Heavens Thunder Prison? 
但在九霄雷狱中吸收先天灵气需要锻体秘术，先祖九玄有记载其中几门吸收先天神雷的秘术，不过其中多是为我龙族量身定制的应该没有适合道友的。¤But absorbing the innate spiritual energy in the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison requires body forging secret arts. Ancestor Jiu Xuan recorded several secret arts for absorbing innate divine thunder, but most of them are tailored for our dragon clan and may not be suitable for fellow daoists.
九霄神雷乃是先天之雷，在其中引雷锻体，可以吸收先天之气精进体道。道友进入其中不断承受雷劫就可吸收先天灵气。¤The Nine Heavens Divine Thunder is a pre-heaven thunder, by using it to Lightning Forged Body, one can absorb pre-heaven qi to enhance the Body Dao. Fellow Daoists who continuously endure the Thunder Calamity within can absorb pre-heaven spiritual energy.
那雷鸣海引雷锻体又该如何完成？¤How can one accomplish the Thunder Sea Lightning Forged Body?
九霄雷狱本就是一处存在于异空间的天地异象，而链接它的空间节点是不断变动的，想要进入必须找到空间节点。¤Nine Heavens Thunder Prison is a phenomenon that exists in another dimension, and the spatial nodes that connect to it are constantly changing, so in order to enter, one must find the spatial node.
说罢他递给你一块玉简，你将神识探入其中。¤After speaking, he hands you a jade slip and you probe your soul sense into it.
对了，我想起了有一门应该适合道友。¤By the way, I just remembered a technique that should be suitable for fellow daoists.
关于雷鸣海我就知道这么多了。¤About Thunder Sea, this is all I know.
哦，对了先祖曾在笔录中记载，在渡过了锻体之后，还陷入了顿悟之中，领悟了一道渡劫仙术，只是可惜...¤Oh, by the way, our ancestor recorded in his writings that after he underwent body forging, he also experienced enlightenment and learned the technique of overcoming calamity immortal technique. Unfortunately...
多谢告知。¤Thank you for letting me know.
一道光幕挡住了你。¤A light curtain blocked you.
道友，你这次的仪式就我亲自主持。¤Fellow daoist, I will personally preside over your ceremony this time.
一道光幕挡住了你，远远望去一颗龙珠浮于空中。¤A light barrier blocks you as you see a dragon ball floating in mid-air in the distance.
道友，这进入龙脉之中的化龙池，必须你成为供奉之后。¤Fellow Daoist, in order to enter the Dragon Transformation Pond within the Dragon Veins, you must become a Guest Elder first.
道友，我龙族龙珠为百里败类所盗取，现在这龙脉之中的化龙池不过是徒有其表罢了。¤Fellow Daoist, my Dragon Clan's Dragon Pearl was stolen by the scoundrel Baili. The Dragon Transformation Pond in these dragon veins is just a facade.
道友，可是要进入化龙池？¤Fellow Daoist, are you planning to enter the Dragon Transformation Pond?
道友，若是准备好了，随时可以来找我。¤Fellow Daoist, if you're ready, you can come find me anytime.
小友，来此可有要事？¤Young friend, do you have any important matters to discuss here?
一道光幕阻挡住了你，九霄并没有回应你。¤A beam of light barrier blocked you, and Jiuxiao did not respond to you.
浪方体内灵气充裕，灵力屏障的恢复速度极快。要尝试现在就攻击肉壁逃离这里么？¤Inside Langfang's body, the spiritual energy is abundant, and the recovery speed of the spiritual energy shield is extremely fast. Do you want to try to attack the meat wall and escape from here now?
已经修炼了{$year}年，但浪方体内的灵气仍然十分充裕，灵力屏障的恢复速度极快。要尝试现在就攻击肉壁逃离这里么？¤After cultivating for {$year} years, the spiritual energy within Lang Fang's body is still abundant, and the recovery speed of the spiritual shield is extremely fast. Do you want to try attacking the flesh wall and escaping from here now?
修炼了{$year}年，浪方体内的灵气已经稀释了不少，要尝试现在就攻击肉壁逃离这里么？¤After cultivating for {$year} years, the spiritual energy in Lang Fang's body has significantly weakened. Should he attempt to strike the flesh wall and flee from here now?
修炼了{$year}年，浪方体内的灵气已经大不如前，要尝试现在就攻击肉壁逃离这里么？¤After cultivating for {$year} years, the spiritual energy within Lang Fang's body has greatly declined. Is he going to attempt to strike the flesh wall and escape from here now?
你在他的体内修炼，无异于是在与他争夺灵气，间接也削弱了他的实力。到时候再想办法动手，应该比现在要容易的多。¤You are cultivating inside his body, which is tantamount to competing with him for spiritual energy, indirectly weakening his strength. It should be much easier to take action later when the time comes.
浪方每次施展吞噬神通后，都需要花费大量的时间才能将这些灵气全部炼化吸收。¤After every use of Devouring Divine Skill, Lang Fang needs to spend a lot of Time to refine and absorb all the spiritual Qi.
这些肉壁都有灵气屏障的保护，而且屏障恢复的速度奇快，想要打穿肉壁从这里逃出去，恐怕没有那么简单。¤These flesh walls are protected by qi barriers, and the recovery speed of the barriers is incredibly fast. If you want to break through the flesh walls and escape from here, it's probably not that easy.
若是施展领域神通，未必不能破除这里的云雾。要为此强行开启领域么...？¤If I were to use the divine skill of domain, it may be possible to dispel the mist here. Do I have to forcefully activate my domain for this?
就这样过了一两个时辰，你实在是讲无可讲，一时间不知道说些什么，愣在了原地。¤It passed one or two hour intervals like this, you really had nothing to say, and for a moment, you didn't know what to say and just stood still.
传言吞云大圣修为通天，不过依我看……也不过尔尔。¤It is said that the Cloud Swallowing Saint's cultivation is heaven-defying, but in my opinion... it's not that remarkable.
说罢，你身前的云雾分出了一条小道，吞云大圣也消失在了云雾中。你凭空作了一揖，便离开了此地。¤After saying that, a small path opened up in front of you through the clouds, and the Cloud Swallowing Saint disappeared into the mist. You gave a bow and left the area.
好强的神识修为...难怪能够看破本座的幻雾。¤Such a strong cultivation of soul sense...no wonder he can see through my mirage mist.
（此人莫非...便是吞云大圣？）¤(This person could it be... the Cloud Swallowing Saint?)
正是，不过他并非宁州之人，而是从雍州而来……¤That's right, but he is not a person from Ningzhou, but rather came from Yongzhou...
有意思，短短不到十日的时间，便能看破本座的云雾幻象...¤Interesting, in less than ten days of time, one is able to see through this seat's cloud and mist illusion...
哈哈哈哈哈，口出狂言。那就让本座看看你有几分能耐！¤Hahaha, boasting without shame. Let me see how much skill you really have!
在下乃是龙族供奉，还望看在龙族的份上，给在下几分薄面……¤I am a guest elder of the Dragon Clan. I hope that, out of respect for the Dragon Clan, you could give me some face...
不行，这云雾法门相当高明，仅凭我目前对于水道的感悟，还不足以破开它...得想想别的办法。¤No, this cloud and mist technique is quite ingenious. With only my current enlightenment in water techniques, I am not yet able to break through it... I need to think of another way.
你尝试操控周天的云雾，云雾开始慢慢翻滚着向两旁褪去，远处一名身着青衣的白发男子若隐若现，似乎正在打量着你...¤You attempt to manipulate the clouds and mist in your dantian, and the mist slowly rolls away to both sides. A white-haired man in blue robes is faintly visible in the distance, seemingly sizing you up...
有趣...你的眼睛很独特，竟能看破本座的幻雾。¤It's interesting... Your eyes are unique, able to see through my illusory mist. Note
无奈之下，你只得向他求饶。¤Under helplessness, you could only beg for mercy from him.
你将灵气灌入双目之中，但目力所及皆是白茫茫的一片，最多不过看到数百米开外的地方。¤You infuse spiritual energy into your eyes, but everything in your vision is just a vast expanse of white mist, and the farthest you can see is only a few hundred meters away.
笑话，本座要人类的灵石有何用？¤What use does this seat have for human spirit stones?
你将神识展开，向周围探去。但这里的云雾有一定阻挡神识的效果。反复尝试了多次以后，你还是没能找到正确的方向。¤You expand your soul sense and probe around your surroundings. However, the mist here has a certain effect of obstructing your soul sense. After trying repeatedly multiple times, you still couldn't find the correct direction.
笑话，就算是覆海大圣亲至本座也不一定给他面子。¤Even if the overwhelming sea saint came in person, I might not necessarily show him face.
雾气渐浓，一开始你只觉得这在吞云海上是正常现象，但没过多久，四周就变成了白茫茫的一片，一时间竟让你分不清方向。¤The mist gradually thickened, at first you only felt that this was a normal phenomenon on the Swallowing Cloud Sea, but after a while, the surroundings became a white expanse, and for a time you couldn't distinguish the direction.
这浓雾非同寻常，竟然还能阻挡我的神识...在这吞云海上有能力施展此等神通的，恐怕...¤This fog is unusual, it can actually block my soul sense... Anyone who has the ability to use divine skills on this Swallowing Cloud Sea, I'm afraid...
传言吞云大圣修为通天，在下特来讨教，还望大圣指点一二。¤Rumor has it that the Cloud Swallowing Saint's cultivation reaches the heavens. I have come to seek guidance and advice from the esteemed saint.
你施展领域，全力一击下，雾气轰然散开，远处一名身着青衣的白发男子若隐若现，似乎正在打量着你。¤You activate your Domain, unleashing a full-powered strike that dispels the Mist, revealing a white-haired man in Qing Yi who appears to be observing you from afar.
道友与我修为相当，又何须用指点二字。本座也许久未与同阶修士切磋交流了，今日便与道友过上两招罢。¤Fellow Daoist and I have equal cultivation levels, there is no need for guidance. It has been a while since I have dueled with a cultivator of the same level, let us exchange two moves.
看来还得想想别的办法...¤Looks like I need to think of another solution...
罢了，下次来你若能通过本座的考验，本座倒不是不能指点你一二。¤It's alright, if you can pass my test next time you come, I will give you some guidance.
恐怕只有化神期妖圣，吞云大圣吧。¤Perhaps only the demon saints in the Deity Transforming Stage and the Cloud Swallowing Saints can do it.
原来如此...虽然变化更加复杂，但与我所学的幻雾法门还是有许多相似之处。用操控幻雾的手法，应当可以破除这里的云雾。¤Originally... Although the transformation is more complex, it still has many similarities with the mirage mist technique that I have learned. By manipulating the mirage mist, it should be possible to remove the clouds and mist here.
前辈息怒，其实在下来自宁州，还与化神期强者白帝颇有渊源，望前辈给两分薄面...放过离开。¤Senior, please calm down. Actually, I come from Ningzhou and have some connections with the powerful Void Transformation expert White Emperor. I hope you can spare me and let me leave.
哈哈哈，小友既能破了我的幻雾境，也算是与本座有缘，今日便与小友过上两招罢。¤Hahaha, young friend was able to break my Phantom Fog Realm, it can be considered fate with this seat. Let's exchange a move or two today.
前辈息怒，其实在下来自宁州{$menpaistr}，还望前辈给两分薄面……¤Senior, please calm down. Actually, I hail from Ningzhou{$menpaistr}. I hope senior can give me some face and pardon my mistake.
呵呵呵，听来人类的世界倒也颇为有趣，只可惜小友实力稍欠火候。¤Hehehe, it sounds like the human world is quite interesting, but unfortunately, young friend's strength is a little lacking.
你全力施展神通，连续不断的向着同一处攻去。也不知过了多久，雾气渐渐淡了，远处一名身着青衣的白发男子若隐若现，似乎正在打量着你。¤You used your divine skill to attack continuously towards the same direction with all your strength. After an unknown amount of time, the mist gradually dissipated, revealing a white-haired man dressed in blue clothes in the distance, who seemed to be observing you.
原来如此...云雾虽然变换莫测，但终究不过是对于水之道的一种运用方式。凭我对于水之道的感悟，应当可以破除这里的云雾。¤It turns out...although the clouds and mist are ever-changing and unpredictable, they are ultimately just a way of using the Water Dao. With my understanding of the Water Dao, I should be able to dispel the clouds and mist here.
看来不破除这片幻雾，是没有办法从这里离开了。得想想办法...¤It seems that without dispelling this mirage mist, there is no way to leave from here. We need to think of a solution...
哦？本座为何要放过你？¤Oh? Why should I let you go?
你盘腿坐下，细细感悟云雾的流动...¤You sit cross-legged and carefully enlighten the flow of clouds and mist... without further explaining certain keywords.
你收敛起气息，过了一会，云雾不但没有散去，反而更重了。¤You converge your breath and after a while, the fog not only didn't dissipate, but instead became denser.
只见周围的雾气淡了下来，不远处隐约出现了一名身着青衣的白发男子。¤I saw the mist around me thinning out, and a white-haired man dressed in a qing yi appeared faintly in the distance.
你施展神通，向四周的浓雾中猛然攻去。雾气一阵翻滚后又恢复了平静，似乎什么事也没有发生...¤You unleash your divine skill and fiercely attack towards the thick mist surrounding you. The mist churns for a moment before recovering its calmness, as if nothing had happened...
云层之后，一名身着青衣的白发男子，竟也在打量着你。¤Behind the clouds, a white-haired man wearing blue clothes is also staring at you. Note
这么说，这血河老祖也是化神修为？¤So, are you saying that Patriarch Blood River has also achieved deity transformation cultivation? 
白帝乃是白帝楼楼主，宁州第一剑修，凭一己之力便击退了那血剑宫的血河老祖，其创下的天地人剑，堪称一绝……¤The White Emperor is the master of the White Emperor Pavilion, the number one sword cultivator in Ningzhou. He single-handedly repelled Patriarch Blood River of the Blood Sword Palace, and created the Heavenly Human Sword technique, which is truly unparalleled...
噢？这白帝是何许人也？¤Oh? Who is this White Emperor?
噢？这{$menpaistr}是什么？¤Oh? What is this {$menpaistr}?
你天生异瞳，目力便异于常人。将灵气灌入双目之中，隐隐约约便看见前方站着一名身着青衣的白发男子，竟也在打量着你。¤You have natural pupils, and your eyesight is different from that of ordinary people. By infusing spiritual energy into your eyes, you faintly see a white-haired man wearing a blue garment standing in front of you, who is also sizing you up.
我要给前辈多少灵石，前辈才肯放过我？前辈不妨直说便是。¤How many spirit stones do I need to give to my senior, for them to let me go? Senior, feel free to directly say it.
若是施展神通连续攻击，未必不能破除这里的云雾，但恐怕对灵力损耗颇大...要强行破除这里的幻雾么？¤If one were to continuously use divine skills to attack, it may be possible to dispel the mist here, but it is feared that the loss of spiritual power would be considerable... Do you want to forcefully dispel the illusionary mist here?
这里的云雾虽然有一定阻挡神识的效果，但你将神识凝于一点，穿透力便大大的增强了。反复试探之下，终于穿透了厚厚的云层。¤Although the clouds here have a certain effect of obstructing the soul sense, if you condense your soul sense into a point, its penetrative power will greatly increase. After repeated testing, you finally penetrated through the thick clouds.
这...门派其实是人类特有的称谓，每个门派都有其独特的功法传承，自成一方势力，这{$menpaistr}便是在下师承的门派……¤This... the sect is actually a term unique to humans. Each sect has its own unique technique inheritance and has become a force of its own. {$menpaistr} is the sect that I am under the guidance of...
按照这个思路，你讲完传说后，便又开始讲一些关于化神强者的传闻，或是一些捕风捉影的故事。吞云大圣同样听的津津有味。¤Following this line of thought, after you finished telling the legend, you began to talk about some rumours about powerful deity transformation experts or some unfounded stories. The cloud swallowing saint also listened with great interest.
（这吞云大圣虽然修为高深，但似乎对人类世界很是陌生，连一些基础的概念都不知道...）¤(This Cloud Swallowing Saint, although having a profound cultivation, seems to be very unfamiliar with the human world, not even knowing some basic concepts...)
你讲了一些宁州广为流传的精彩传说，每当讲的告一段落，吞云大圣便简单地问两个问题，你便又同他解释。¤You told some fascinating legends widely circulated in Ningzhou. Every time you finished telling a story, Cloud Swallowing Saint would simply ask two questions, and you would explain to him again.
前辈，在下无意打扰前辈静修，只是无意间飞入此处，还望前辈恕罪。¤Senior, I did not mean to disturb your meditation. I accidentally flew into this place and hope senior can forgive me.
嗯，走吧。¤Uh, let's go.
快走啦，这里我都清理干净了，没什么好看的。¤Quickly go, I have cleaned everything here, there's nothing interesting to see.
你又在附近搜索了一番，果然没有更多收获。若不是一股淡淡的血腥味萦绕不散，你甚至会怀疑这附近并不是战场。¤You searched nearby again, and as expected, you found no more gains. If it weren't for a faint smell of blood lingering, you might even doubt that this area was a battlefield.
（这...不论是屋内还是屋外，竟然都没有战斗的痕迹...）¤(Without considering whether it's inside or outside the house, there surprisingly aren't any signs of combat...)
你向星铃儿点点头，而后又示意自己想在附近看看。¤You nod at Star Bell and then indicate that you want to take a look around the area.
这边的修士都被我解决啦，比想象中的要简单一点，嘻嘻。¤I have resolved all the cultivators here, it was easier than I imagined, hehe.
而星铃儿正坐在灵田边的凉亭内哼小曲。¤And Star Bell was sitting in the pavilion by the Spirit Field, humming a tune.
屋前还有几片贫瘠的灵田，其中草药都还没生长完成，并无价值。¤In front of the house, there are several barren spiritual fields, among which the herbs have not yet fully grown and are of no value.
一排简单的房屋排列在你眼前，简易程度让人觉得不过是临时居住所用。¤A row of simple houses is arranged in front of you, and the simplicity of it makes it feel like a temporary living space.
另一边有些我在意的气息，还是待会再来此处吧。¤There is another presence I am concerned about on the other side. I will come back here later.
你正为星铃儿强大的实力惊叹时，却看见还有另一位修士正潜伏在大殿的阴影中准备出手袭击她，后者却像是被其他物事吸引了注意力一般，毫无防备。¤You were amazed by the strong power of Star Bell, but you spotted another cultivator lurking in the shadows of the hall, preparing to attack her. The latter, however, seemed distracted by something else and was completely unprepared.
星道友小心！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Watch out, fellow daoist Xing! {vpunch=10,0.5}Note
但预想之中的攻击并没有到来，甚至呼喝也戛然而止，只有四处逸散的红白之物沾染了你方才凝集的灵气护盾。定睛看去，此些污物的主人已是瘫倒在星铃儿身前。¤However, the expected attack did not come. Even the shouting stopped abruptly. Only scattered red and white objects tainted the spiritual shield that you had just gathered. Upon closer inspection, the owner of these impurities had already collapsed in front of Star Bell.
刚步入大厅你便听到其中妖人在大声呼喝，立时凝气护体，准备应对。¤As soon as you stepped into the Grand Hall, you heard the demonic beings loudly shouting. You immediately condensed your Qi to protect yourself and prepared to respond.
此乃禁地锁鸾堂！何人擅...¤This is the Forbidden Lock Luantang! Who dares to trespass...
由于不知这里是否有妖人埋伏，你不愿让星铃儿独自赴险，只得跟上去。¤Due to the unknown ambush of demons here, you didn't want to let Star Bell go alone to the dangerous place and had to follow her.
一座破败的建筑横卧在此地，其点缀着绿意的门墙上不断渗出压抑的痛哼和幽暗的呻吟。¤A broken building lay horizontally in this place, with the green walls dotted with constantly oozing painful groans and dark moans.
你虽不知这是何处，但星铃儿显然已经知道屋内有些什么。于是你还在犹豫时，她已皱着眉头，一言不发地步入其中。¤Although you do not know where this is, Star Bell obviously already knows what is inside the room. So while you were still hesitating, she furrowed her brow and silently stepped inside.
这边是教众的居所，还是交给我吧，解决教主之后你再来帮忙也不迟。¤This is the residence of the disciples. Just leave it to me and you can come help after solving the leader of the sect.
哼，多说无益。威不威风还是先问过我的神通再说吧，看招！¤Hmph, talking more is useless. Whether I'm powerful or not, let's first test my divine skill, take this!
道友好威风，不过{$JinJie1}修为就弄了个教主当，竟还妄称本座。¤Fellow daoist is mighty and impressive, but with only {$JinJie1} cultivation, you dare to claim the position of sect leader and even use the title '本座' .
大胆狂徒！竟敢在本座面前出言不逊！¤Bold berserker! How dare you speak impudently in front of me!
你若交出采补秘术，我就是来讨教的道友，不然嘛，就是取你命的人。¤If you hand over the cultivation secret arts, I am a fellow daoist who came to seek advice. Otherwise, I am the one taking your life.
何人打扰本座清修？¤Who disturbed my meditation?
一座平平无奇的大殿立于道路尽头，其中一位修士正背对大门盘膝而坐。¤A plain-featured hall stood at the end of the road, with a cultivator sitting cross-legged with their back facing the entrance. 
相比之前那处，这里才是不正常。走吧，该去找正主了。¤Compared to before, this place is abnormal. Let's go, it's time to find the main protagonist.
去其他地方看看吧,这里没什么。¤Go and take a look elsewhere, there's nothing here.
这里看起来还挺正常的，好像还有专人清理打扫，不但用具摆放整齐，而且鲜有尘杂。¤Here looks quite normal, it seems that there is a dedicated person cleaning and sweeping, not only the utensils are neatly placed, but also there is rarely any dust.
但并未有修士驻守在此地，甚至除洞府内常见的用具外别无他物，硬要说的话，也就还有夹杂着各种异香的灵气和某些难以描述的异味罢了。¤However, there were no cultivators stationed here, and apart from the common tools found in the cave, there was nothing else. If one were to insist, the only other things present would be the spiritual energy mixed with various intoxicating fragrances and some indescribable odors.
星铃儿说着，已是漫不经心地轻踩莲步走入其中。你摇摇头，保持警惕地跟随在后。¤Star Bell said, walking nonchalantly with small steps into it. You shake your head and cautiously follow behind.
还是先进去看看再说吧。¤Let's go in and take a look first before deciding.
星道友的意思是？¤What does fellow daoist Xing mean?
哼，可没修炼那么简单。¤Hmph. Cultivation is not that easy.
这里灵气充盈，还有着简单的聚灵阵法加持，莫不是所谓“神教“成员用于修炼的地方？¤The spiritual energy here is abundant, and with the addition of a simple gathering spirit array, could this be the place where Divine Teachings members cultivate?
嗯...¤Hmm...
所以甚少有修士愿耗时追查，更不用说像这妮子一般赶尽杀绝。如不是其中有什么恩怨，便是个嫉恶如仇的性子罢。¤Therefore, very few cultivators are willing to spend time investigating, let alone to exterminate like this girl. If it is not because of some grudges, it is just a personality of hating evil like an enemy.
采补秘术么...我印象中的宁州还是有相关功法流传的，不过修这类邪术难成气候，修炼者往往又精于躲藏，像这般自成小门派者更是难究其踪。¤Do you cultivate secret arts...? From my memory, there are related techniques passed down in Ningzhou, but cultivating such evil arts is difficult and practitioners are often skilled at hiding. Those who form their own small sects like this are even harder to track down.
老头子，你听说过这什么采补秘术么？¤Have you heard of this cai bu secret arts, old man?
星铃儿只是点点头，看起来并没有放在心上。¤Star Bell just nodded, seeming not to take it to heart.
星道友多加小心。¤Fellow Daoist Xing, please be extra careful.
不可，我先去困住那些教众，你解决他们的头目后尽快来帮我。这些妖人，今天一个也别想跑！¤I'll immobilize the disciples first. After you deal with their leader, come help me as soon as possible. These demons won't be able to escape today!
那我们直取教主？想必教主死后，其他教徒也会作猢狲而散，难成威胁。¤So shall we directly go for the sect leader? Presumably, after the sect leader's death, the other disciples will scatter like monkeys and pose no threat.
经我神识查探，往左便是教主居所，右方则有若干教众。¤After using my soul sense to investigate, on the left is the residence of the sect leader, while on the right there are several sect disciples.
经过刚才锁鸾堂一事，星铃儿显然是心情有些不佳，于是这筑基初期修士一句话还未说完，便已是丢掉了自己的性命。¤After the incident at Suo Luan Tang just now, it was apparent that Xing Ling'er was feeling a bit unhappy. Therefore, before this foundation establishment cultivator could finish his sentence, he had already lost his life.
站住！我怎么没见过你...¤Stop! Why haven't I seen you before...
（你快去解决他，我用神识为你掩盖战斗波动，省得引起他人注意。）¤(Quickly go deal with him, I'll use my soul sense to cover up the fluctuations in combat, to avoid attracting attention from others.)
你正考虑着，是该直接动手解决这个自称神教中人的陌生修士，还是先问上两句借此让他放松警惕，免得动静过大，却接到星铃儿的神识传音。¤You are considering whether to directly deal with this stranger cultivator who claims to be a member of a divine cult, or to first ask a few questions to let him relax his guard, to avoid making too much noise, but receive a soul sense transmission from Star Bell.
你们是何人？来拜入神教的？难道不知本教只收男弟子么？¤Who are you? Have you come to join our cult? Don't you know that our cult only accepts male disciples?
随着通羽上人与林沐心一前一后地离开，星宫这大殿终于又回到静谧之中，仿佛什么都没发生过。¤With Venerable Tongyu and Lin Muxin leaving one after the other, the Star Palace finally return to tranquility as if nothing happened.
回到星宫时，星铃儿正站在星宫大殿上，像是在等你们。¤When returning to the Star Palace, Star Bell was standing on the main hall as if waiting for you all.
再次被通羽上人及林沐心打断后，丹阳子未再说什么，起身拂袖而去。¤Upon being interrupted once again by Venerable Tongyu and Lin Muxin, Dan Yangzi remained silent, rose from his seat and brushed off his sleeve before leaving.
哼，这老不死的，真烦人。¤Hmph, this old guy is really annoying.
白帝这老家伙是不是知道你和本宫的关系，所以故意让你来邀请我？¤Does this old guy White Emperor know about your relationship with me, so he deliberately asked you to invite me?
咳，我还有些事要忙，失陪了。¤Ahem, I still have some things to attend to, so I will take my leave.
那柳红鸾呢？若不是你贪图玩乐，不理事务，她又如何会...¤Where is Liu Hongluan? If it weren't for you being indulgent in pleasure and neglecting your responsibilities, how would she...
（奇怪，丹阳子为何将{$xing}道友称为宫主？}¤(Strangely, why did Dan Yangzi refer to {$xing} fellow daoist as the palace master?)
后者接到请帖后用神识漫不经心地扫过，而后便是凡眼可见的，愤怒占据了她的脸庞。¤The latter casually scanned the invitation with their soul sense after receiving it, and then anger occupied their face visibly.
沐心说的宫主便是她，柳红鸾。¤The palace lord mentioned by Mu Xin is her, Liu Hong Luan.
我...我...我突破化神与他何干！¤I... I... My breakthrough deity transformation has nothing to do with him!
{$TmpTalkString}，帮我转告白帝，本宫到时自会前往观礼。¤{$TmpTalkString}, please pass on to the White Emperor that I will attend the ceremony myself.
你可还记得约七百年前我带回的那个姓柳的小女孩？¤Do you still remember the little girl surnamed Liu that I brought back about 700 years ago?
不知宫主找我与通羽前来何事？为何不见冲虚散人？¤I don't know why the palace master has summoned me and Tongyu. Why haven't we seen Hermit Chong Xu?
谨遵宫主命。¤I will follow the order of the palace master.
父亲！我也认为通羽长老说的对。¤Father! I also agree with what Elder Tongyu said.
但你心知肚明，星宫与古神教之间既已结下仇怨，绝不会就这么轻易结束。¤But you know in your heart that the feud between the Star Palace and the Ancient God Sect will not easily come to an end.
星宫大殿之中，星凝正独自于此浏览着什么。¤In the Star Palace's main hall, Xing Ning is currently browsing something alone here. 
还能说什么，不就是对我晋升化神而不告抱有不满么。¤What else can I say? Isn't it just dissatisfaction towards my deity transformation without informing me of it?
唉...¤Oh...
我本只想让星宫在宁州平稳发展，但这古神教既是如此嚣张，恐怕星宫的处世方式也得变...¤I only wanted the Star Palace to develop smoothly in Ningzhou, but the Ancient God Sect has become so arrogant that it seems the way the Star Palace handles things will have to change...
嗯...可是冲虚散人勾结古神教欲加害宫主，被发现后引柳红鸾、心儿以及{FirstName}道友在追杀时入阵遭伏，从而导致柳红鸾战死？¤Uh...but Hermit Chong Xu colluded with the Ancient God Sect to harm the palace lord, and after being discovered, was chased by Liu Hongluan, Xin'er, and Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, but was ambushed and killed in battle, resulting in the death of Liu Hongluan?
我与{$Lin}私交甚好，相助也是分内之事，道友不用客气。¤I have a close relationship with {$Lin}, so it is only natural for us to help each other. Fellow daoist, there's no need to be polite.
嗯？有什么不对么？¤Hmm? What's wrong?
家主！我以为当务之急还是讨论一番如何对待古神教，不应纠结于此。¤Master! I thought that the pressing matter at hand is still discussing how to deal with the Ancient God Sect, rather than getting stuck on this.
好！{vpunch=10,0.5}好！{vpunch=10,0.5}好！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Okay! {vpunch=10,0.5} Okay! {vpunch=10,0.5} Okay! {vpunch=10,0.5}
听闻丹阳子将星铃儿称作宫主让你有些摸不着头脑，你身旁的通羽上人却是满脸平静，一副理所当然的样子。¤I heard that Dan Yangzi referred to Xing Ling'er as the palace lord, which puzzled you, but the venerable Tongyu beside you remained calm and acted as if it was natural.
哼，上门质问又如何，若不是我今日亲口说出来，以你的修为能看穿不成？还不是被瞒到现在。¤Hmph, what's the use of coming to question me? If it weren't for me saying it myself today, with your cultivation, could you see through it? You wouldn't have known until now.
不错，白帝即将渡劫飞升，特让我来邀请你前往观礼。¤Not bad, the White Emperor is about to go through his tribulation and ascend, so I am here to invite you to come and observe the ceremony.
白帝既有此心，本宫便奉陪到底，¤Since the White Emperor has this intention, this palace will accompany him to the end.
哼，说得轻巧，只怕是瞒了我们不下四百年了吧！{vpunch=10,0.5}此前我就在想，你星凝怎么突然转变了性子竟愿呆在宫中修炼，若不是无惑一直相信你，我早就上门质问了！¤Hmph. That's easier said than done. You've probably been hiding this from us for at least four hundred years! {vpunch=10,0.5} Before this, I was wondering why you, Xing Ning, suddenly changed your attitude and wanted to stay in the palace to cultivate. If it weren't for Wu Huo's unwavering trust in you, I would have already come to question you!
见星凝一副不耐烦的样子，你也没说什么，只是将请帖从储物袋中取出，并通过以灵气御物将其递送过去。¤Seeing Xing Ning's impatient expression, you didn't say anything, just took the invitation from the storage pouch and delivered it to her using spiritual energy to control objects.
{vpunch=10,0.5}这些，本宫可还没淡忘！¤I have not forgotten these things!
两人向你点点头，而后沉默地落座。¤The two people nodded to you and then sat down silently.
好，通羽长老请便。¤Okay, Elder Tongyu, please proceed.
是很久了。¤It's been a long time.
提到宫主身死一事，林沐心似是又回到了奇门绝魂阵中，连话语都有些颤抖。¤When mentioning the Master's death, Lin Muxin seems to have returned to the Qimen Jue Soul Array, even her words were trembling. Please note that the names Lin Muxin and Odd Gate should maintain capitalization, whereas qimen jue soul array should be in lower case.
哼，还有什么好问的。说吧，星凝，瞒了我们多少年了。¤Hmph. What else is there to ask. Speak up, Xing Ning, how many years have you been hiding this from us.
让{FirstName}道友见笑了。¤I have embarrassed fellow daoist {FirstName}.
（{FirstName}{$NickName},父亲和宫主这是在说什么啊，我怎么有些...不对，我完全没懂。）¤({FirstName}{$NickName}, what are Father and the Palace Master talking about? Why do I feel like something is off... No, I just don't understand.)
这不是今天的重点，我找你们来是为了讨论星宫的立场。¤This is not today's focus, I called you here to discuss the position of Star Palace.
武陵城那老头竟让你来递送请帖？也罢，我就收下请帖吧，但观礼就免了，我没兴趣。¤The old man from Wuling City actually had you deliver an invitation? Very well, I will accept the invitation, but I will not attend the ceremony, as I am not interested.
胡闹！我本以为只是先祖留下了什么秘法或丹药让你寿元多于寻常修士，结果你却连如此重大的事都瞒着我们么！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Nonsense! I thought it was just some secret technique or pill left by our ancestors that extended your lifespan more than the average cultivator, but you've been concealing such important matters from us! {vpunch=10,0.5}
宫主，这是怎么回事？¤Lord of the Palace, what's going on?
哼，我是为无惑那废物觉得不值，修真路上有半生都在为星宫操劳，结果到寿尽道殂都不知道宫主早已有化神修为。¤Hmph, I feel that it's not worth it to waste my time on Wu Huo. I've spent half of my life working for the Star Palace on the path of cultivation, only to find out upon my death that the palace lord had already achieved deity transformation.
是啊，我都好久没见过父亲这么生气了。¤Yes, I haven't seen father so angry in a long time. 
你收下星铃儿相赠的物事后，想再客套什么，刚好见到丹阳子，通羽上人从门外走入。¤After receiving the gifts presented by Star Bell, you were about to say more polite words when Dan Yangzi and Venerable Tongyu walked in from the door.
通羽长老，你传令下去，让星宫弟子近期以修炼论道为主，减少外出游历的频率，以防古神教还有后手针对。至于是否要针对这邪教做些行动，等那老不死的消了气再作商议。¤Elder Tongyu, pass on my order for the disciples of Star Palace to focus on cultivating and debating, and reduce the frequency of traveling outside to prevent any further actions by the Ancient God Sect. As for taking any action against this cult, we will discuss it when that old immortal has calmed down.
好，道友慢走，我就不送了。¤Okay, fellow daoist, take care and I won't send you off.
星宫出了如此变故，需要商谈一番应对之策，道友若有兴趣可以留下旁听。¤Due to the unexpected changes in Star Palace, we need to discuss appropriate response measures. Fellow Daoists who are interested may stay and listen.
但...但宫主此前在与我一同追杀...冲...冲虚散人时，被这叛徒引入古神教的大阵中，身...身死道消了...¤However... However, when the Palace Master and I were chasing the Hermit Chong Xu, we were led into the formation of the Ancient God Sect by this traitor, and met our demise...
一时间丹阳子与星凝的气势互不相让，大殿内的气氛也是猛地降至冰点，满脸迷茫的林沐心更是识趣地闭上了嘴，转而用神识与你交流。¤At one point, neither Dan Yangzi nor Xing Ning backed down, and the atmosphere in the hall suddenly dropped to freezing point. Lin Muxin, who was looking confused, wisely closed her mouth and communicated with you using her soul sense.
好，很好。古神教蛊惑我派长老，还害死鸾儿，本宫可未曾淡忘！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Okay, very good. The ancient god sect has manipulated our sect's elder and even caused the death of Luan'er. This palace has not forgotten! {vpunch=10,0.5}
白帝前辈即将渡劫飞升，特让我来邀请你届时前往观礼。¤Senior White Emperor is about to make a transition to ascension, so he has asked me to invite you to come and witness the ceremony.
星铃儿皱了皱眉头，但没有反驳，而是转头向你。¤Xingling frowned but did not refute, instead turning her head towards you.
我还是不参与星宫内务了。¤I still won't participate in the internal affairs of the Star Palace.
这印记...武陵城那老头是不是要飞升了？¤This mark...does it mean that the old man in Wuling City is going to ascend?
但为何心儿会称柳红鸾为宫主呢？还请宫主告知。¤Why does Little Xin refer to Liu Hong Luan as Palace Master? Please kindly inform the Palace Master. 
待通羽上人应承，星凝也是化作一道流光离开大殿，不知去了何方。¤Upon Venerable Tongyu's agreement, Xing Ning also turned into a flowing light and left the main hall. It is unknown where they went.
在你刚准备踏入殿中之时，她虽未说什么，但已放下手中的玉简。¤As you were just about to step into the hall, she didn't say anything but put down the jade scroll in her hands.
你是？宫主的...女儿？¤Who are you? The palace lord's...daughter?
待其行至大殿门外，话语才伴随着叹息而至。¤As they approached the entrance to the main hall, words came with a sigh.
丹阳子不知所以然地看向林沐心，显然是不知她在质疑什么。而通羽上人则是向你投来询问的目光，你虽说是对此情形有些想法，但未确定之时也不便开口，只得假装没看到通羽上人的目光，反而是看向星玲儿。¤Dan Yangzi looked at Lin Muxin inexplicably, apparently not knowing what she was questioning. Whereas Venerable Tongyu cast an inquiring look at you. Although you have some thoughts on this situation, you couldn't speak up without confirmation, so you pretended not to see Venerable Tongyu's gaze and instead looked at Xing Linger.
居于上位的星玲儿并没有回应你的目光，像是在思考着什么，一时间也没有为在座各位解惑的打算。¤Ling'er, who is seated in the upper position, did not respond to your gaze, as if pondering something. She also had no intention of clarifying things for everyone present.
星凝一边说着，一边漫不经心地用神识扫过请柬，而后便惊讶的扬起了眉毛。¤Xing Ning casually used his soul sense to scan the invitation as he spoke. Suddenly, his eyebrows raised in surprise.
{size=26}私交...{/size}¤{size=26}Intimate friendship...{/size}
自然记得，宫主当时见其可怜传以简单的星宫功法，之后又因其天资聪颖便一直带在身边。只是近四百年来我经常闭关，很少见到她，想来她应该也是差不多吧。¤I remember clearly that the Palace Lord took pity on her and taught her an easy star palace technique. Later on, because of her talent and intelligence, the Palace Lord kept her close by. However, in the last four hundred years, she has often secluded herself in cultivation and I rarely see her. I assume she is doing well.
你！¤You!
唉，又不是没见过飞升，还要和一帮老家伙装正经，无聊死了。¤Ah, it's not like I've never seen ascension before. I'm bored of acting serious with a bunch of old guys.
随着她的诉说，丹阳子一脸错愕的看向星玲儿，通羽也是满脸凝重。¤As the woman spoke, Dan Yangzi looked at Xing Ling'er with shock on his face, while Tong Yu also wore a solemn expression.
你略一思考后，决定留下旁听。¤After a brief moment of consideration, you decide to stay and listen.
通羽上人轻轻叹了口气，而后朗声打断星凝与丹阳子的争吵。¤Venerable Tongyu let out a light sigh, and then spoke up loudly, interrupting the argument between Xing Ning and Dan Yangzi.
哼。¤Hum.
通羽长老等等，我跟你一起去，我可不想现在回林府面对父亲。¤Elder Tongyu and the others, I'll go with you. I don't want to face my father at the Lin House right now.
心儿，通羽，此事便由你们和宫主商议定夺吧，我有些乏了。¤Little Xin, Tong Yu, let's leave this matter to you and the Palace Master to discuss and settle. I am a bit tired.
我都好久没见过父亲这么生气了。¤Okay, I haven't seen my father this angry in a long time.
很好...古神教蛊惑我星宫长老，令我派名誉扫地，还欲加害于本宫。¤Okay... The Ancient God Sect has hoodwinked our Star Palace Elder, causing our sect's reputation to be ruined and they even intend to harm our sect.
道友若有兴趣，星宫双修秘术《神交法》也可借与道友一观。¤If fellow daoists are interested, they can also observe the dual cultivation secret technique of Star Palace, Divine Intercourse Method《》.
此丹方所记丹药可在突破至化神期时使用，虽不是星宫独有，但也称得上是稀有之物，希望能为道友往后的修炼之路添上一番助力，炼丹所需八角玄冰草与地心淬灵乳也一并相送。¤The pill recipes recorded in this recipe can be used when breaking through to the deity transformation stage. Although it is not unique to the Star Palace, it can still be considered a rare item. I hope it can provide some assistance to fellow daoists on their path of cultivation. The flower of the eight glaciers and sap of the world heart needed for alchemy are also included.
此次多谢道友相助，不然仅凭林长老前去支援，恐怕也要陨落于魔教手中。¤Thank you fellow daoist for your help this time. Without it, relying only on Elder Lin's support, I'm afraid we would have fallen into the hands of the demon sect.
此次确实是我疏忽了，也罢，我就好好说明一下吧。¤This time was indeed my negligence, but that's okay, I'll just explain it carefully.
父亲？你说她是宫主？但...¤Father? You said she is the palace master? But...
家主，宫主能顺利突破至化神期，于星宫而言当是好事。既可壮大星宫实力，又能稳固我派在修仙界的地位近千年，为何要为好事愠恼呢？¤If the head of the family and the palace lord can successfully break through to the Void Transformation stage, it would be a good thing for the Star Palace. It could strengthen the power of the Star Palace and also solidify our sect's position in the world of cultivators for nearly a thousand years. Why be upset about a good thing?
一股{color=red}神识{/color}从你身上扫过。¤A surge of soul sense swept over you.
哈哈哈，终于溜进来了！¤Hahaha, finally made it in!
{vpunch=10,0.5}糟糕，被发现了，还是赶紧溜吧！¤Uh-oh, I've been caught, better make a run for it!
道友止步，此处乃竹山宗地界。¤Fellow Daoist, please stop here. This is the territory of the Bamboo Mountain Sect.
嗯，我也没发现。还是先进去看看再说吧。¤Uh, I didn't notice it either. Let's go in and have a look first before deciding.
但附近好像没有神识妖兽的气息。¤But there doesn't seem to be any aura of soul sense spirit beasts nearby.
我之前发现的元婴妖兽就是在附近，这洞窟说不定就是它的巢穴。¤The nascent soul spirit beast I found earlier is nearby, this cave may be its lair.
走吧，这些千年冰心石对我们也没啥用，还是让其他有缘人来取吧。¤Let's go, these thousand-year heart stones are of no use to us, let's let other people take them.
嗯，稀有之物必有伴生，说不定我们挖下去还能发现大量的百年冰心石呢。¤Well, rare things always come in pairs. Perhaps if we keep digging, we might discover a large amount of hundred-year ice heart stones.
好呀，不过我储物袋放不下了，先放你那吧~¤Okay, but my storage pouch is full, so let's put it in yours for now~
那就给你咯。¤Then I'll give it to you.
不对不对，是我先见到的，应该是我的。¤Not right, not right, I saw it first, it should be mine.
见到了就是我的，森蛛腿也是肉嘛。¤When I see it, it's mine. The legs of the forest spider are also meat.
你要这个干嘛？¤What do you want this for?
诶，这是伴生的千年冰心石吧。¤Hey, isn't this the co-existing thousand-year ice heart stone?
通道的角落中，一簇晶石正若有似无地闪烁着银白之光，如清秋破晓之时的薄雾，满溢清冷之感。¤In the corner of the passageway, a cluster of crystals were quietly flickering with a silver-white light, giving off a sense of coolness similar to the thin mist of a clear autumn morning.
嗯，小心些。¤Uh, be more careful.
估计就在那妖兽修炼的地方！只要我们取了那万载冰心石，不怕它不现身，嘿嘿。¤I estimate that the spirit beast is cultivating in that place! As long as we take the 10,000 years ice heart stone, it won't be a problem for it to show up, hehe.
唔，这个数量的话，附近可能还有万载冰心石，估计...¤Um, in terms of this quantity, there may be 10,000 years ice heart stones nearby, I estimate...
闻言你走上前去，控制法宝在那簇晶石左近深挖了些，底下果然有更多冰心石，对于这种难得一见的四品矿材来说，甚至算得上条千年冰心石矿脉。¤Upon hearing this, you step forward and use your artifact to excavate a deeper area around the cluster of crystal stones. As expected, there are more ice heart stones below. For this rare fourth grade ore, it could even be considered a vein of thousand-year ice heart stones.
好啊你，居然还打我的主意。那要是白跑一趟，肯定是沾了...咦，等等，这千年冰心石的数量好像有点多。¤Okay, you. I can't believe you're still interested in my idea. If we go there for nothing, it'll be a waste...wait, hold on. There seems to be quite a lot of Thousand-Year Ice Heart Stones here.
反正我是陪你来的，亏了算你的，嘿嘿。¤Anyway, I came with you and if we lose, it's your loss. Hehe.
嗯，不过那家伙不知道跑哪去了，若只是些千年冰心石，我们可是白跑一趟。¤Uh, but that guy doesn't know where he went. If it's just some thousand-year ice heart stones, we will have run for nothing.
这里好像有冰心石，品阶还不低的样子，若这里真有元婴妖兽，那至少也应该是千年冰心石吧。¤It seems like there are some ice heart stones here, and they seem to be of a not-so-low class. If there really are nascent soul spirit beasts here, they should at least be equipped with thousand-year ice heart stones.
快些收了这万载冰心石，我们回林府吧。¤Quickly collect this 10,000 years ice heart stone and let's return to Lin House.
听说五品神识系妖丹可以用来炼制强化神识的高品阶丹药，所以想收集一些而已，但看来是我仙缘不足，今天不能如愿了。¤I heard that 五品神识  demon cores can be used to refine high-level pill to strengthen the soul sense, so I just wanted to collect some of them. But it seems that my 仙缘  is not enough, so I can't do it today.
要那妖丹做什么？¤What do you want the demon pill for?
可惜没找到那元婴妖兽，我对它的妖丹倒是有些兴趣。¤Unfortunately, I didn't find that nascent soul spirit beast, but I am interested in its demon core.
嘿嘿，那可不是。¤Hey hey, that's not it.
还真把自己代入跟班啦？这么强力的跟班，可要让其他修士羡慕死了。¤Are you really immersing yourself in being a follower? Having such a powerful follower will make other cultivators jealous. 
啧，林小姐真是大方，以后有这种好事别忘了也叫上小的。¤Wow, Miss Lin is truly generous. Don't forget to invite me for such good things in the future as well.
好吧。不过这万载冰心石我也不太感兴趣，就当是你陪我来探险的小费好了，嘻嘻。¤Okay... But I'm not really interested in this 10,000 years ice heart stone. Let's just consider it as a tip for coming on an adventure with me, hehe.
说不定是刚好离开洞穴了吧，既然如此，我还是先把万载冰心石挖下来，好歹算是点收获。¤Maybe they just left the cave. If that's the case, I'll dig up the 10,000 years ice heart stone, it's still a decent gain.
我上次确实是在这附近感应到了它强大的神识，但今天却是在秘宝的辅助下都没有任何发现。¤I did indeed sense its powerful soul sense around here last time, but today, even with the aid of the treasure, I have not found anything.
进来之后除了那金丹期的小蜘蛛，我们好像都没碰见什么。¤After coming in, apart from that spider in the golden core stage, we haven't encountered anything it seems. 
你之前提到的那个妖兽呢？¤Where is that spirit beast you mentioned earlier?
但林沐心出奇地没有在意，而是皱着眉头不知在想什么。¤But Lin Muxin surprisingly didn't pay attention, instead she frowned and seemed to be thinking about something.
不愧是林家二小姐。¤Truly worthy of being Lin Family's Second Miss.
想起当年在结侣大典上的万载冰心石所铸银色冠，你不禁有些唏嘘。¤Remembering the silver crown crafted from the 10,000 years ice heart stone at the Partner Selection Ceremony years ago, you couldn't help but feel a little emotional.
我家可是有一顶完全以万载冰心石铸成的银色冠，比天然矿脉好看多了。¤My family has a silver crown completely crafted from 10,000 years ice heart stone, much better looking than natural ore veins.
虽然，不是特别多，也不算特别稀有，而且没想象中好看，但真是第一次见到天然的万载冰心石矿脉呢！¤Although not particularly abundant, nor especially rare, and not as beautiful as imagined, it is indeed the first time seeing a natural vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone. Okay…
当然啊，我还是第一次看到万载冰心石矿脉呢！¤Of course, it's my first time seeing a vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone!
怎么，{$LIn}很兴奋？¤How, {$LIn} is very excited?
洞窟尽头，一簇晶石正闪烁着银白之光，如雾凇沆砀，清冷异常。¤At the end of the cave, a cluster of crystal stones is shimmering with silver-white light, like hoarfrost sparkling in the cold, exceptionally clear and cold.
噢！果然有万载冰心石矿脉！¤Oh! There really is a vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone ore!
噢！是万载冰心石矿脉！¤Oh! It's a vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone ore!
而始作俑者——一只元婴期的冥蛛，正堵在洞口，已是趁你检查林沐心伤势的时间完成下一击的蓄力。¤And the instigator a nascent soul dark spider - was blocking the entrance, already building up power to strike again as you checked on Lin Muxin's injuries in the meantime.
你连忙上前检查林沐心的伤情，好在她虽是身受重伤，但本就很强大的神识在法宝的被动保护下并无大碍，只是暂时失去了战斗力而已。¤You quickly checked Lin Muxin's injuries. Fortunately, although she was seriously wounded, her powerful soul sense was protected by the artifact's passive defense and was not seriously harmed. She only temporarily lost the ability to fight.
只听她一声惨叫，凄艳的鲜血随之沾染了你的衣袍。¤You only hear her scream tragically, and the beautiful fresh blood stains your clothes.
嗯？啊！¤Hmm? Ah!
{$Lin},小心！¤{$Lin}, be careful!
不，我们一起上，省得让它跑了。¤No, we'll go together to prevent it from running away.
好，交给我，你先把伤情稳住。¤Okay, leave it to me. You stabilize the injuries first. 
没事，小伤而已，先宰了这孽畜再说。¤No problem, just a minor injury. Let's kill this evil creature first.
{$NickName}，你怎么样？你可不能出事啊...¤{$NickName}, how are you? You must not get into trouble...
你一边应承着林沐心，一边小心翼翼的操控着法宝试探着阵法。¤You promise Lin Muxin while cautiously manipulating the artifact to test the array.
你见法宝来不及撤回，只得一把将林沐心扯入怀中，而后抱着她勉强侧身，尽力驱动神通挡住那道银芒。¤You didn't have time to retract the artifact, so you had to pull Lin Muxin into your arms and reluctantly turned sideways, using all your efforts to drive the divine skill to block that silver light.
正在你转头想与林沐心说什么时，却瞥见一束银芒飞刺向毫无防备的林沐心。¤While you were turning your head to say something to Lin Muxue, you caught sight of a silver radiance that flew towards the unprepared Lin Muxue.
唔，不愧是五品矿材，想完整的取下来还真没那么容...¤Hmm, it's no wonder it's a fifth-grade mineral material. It's not that easy to take it down completely...
你一边应承着林沐心，一边小心翼翼的操控着法宝，想把这万载冰心石完整的从矿脉中凿出。¤You promised Lin Muxin while carefully manipulating the artifact, wanting to carve out the 10,000 years ice heart stone intact from the vein of ore.
不过这阵法很是简单，只需...¤However, this array is very easy, just need...
嗯，正是如此，而且我们眼前的万载冰心石也是幻象而已，真实的冰心石应该在阵内的其他位置。¤Well, that's right. And the 10,000 years ice heart stone in front of us is just an illusion. The real ice heart stone should be in other positions inside the array.
啊，难怪我们之前都没能发觉万载冰心石的气息，原来是被这阵法遮掩了么？¤Ah, no wonder we couldn't sense the aura of the 10,000 years ice heart stone before. It was actually hidden by this array?
可能要稍微等我一会了，这里竟以万载冰心石为基础，形成了一个小型的天然幻阵。¤I may have to wait a bit, as there is a small natural illusion formation here based on the 10,000 years ice heart stone.
我就不信你没什么怕的。¤I don't believe you have nothing to fear.
你轻笑着将冥蛛驱逐至洞窟之外。¤You smile lightly and drive the Dark Spider out of the cave.
哼，凡人不也会怕能被随意碾死的小虫子。¤Hmph, even mortals are afraid of being crushed by small insects.
哦？你一个元婴修士居然怕金丹期的冥蛛？¤Oh? You, a cultivator at the Nascent Soul stage, are afraid of the Dark Spider at the Golden Core stage?
快把它赶走，我讨厌虫子。¤Hurry up and drive it away, I hate bugs.
嗯？金丹期的冥蛛？¤Hmm? The dark spider of the golden core stage?
（地阶上品傀儡么，此处大概是中继阵基吧。）¤(On the high-grade earthly puppet, this should be the relay array formation base here.)
（虽然时间紧迫，但先想法办解除阵法应该会在之后的战斗中更有优势。）¤(Although time is pressing, thinking of a way to dispel the array should give us more advantages in the upcoming combat.)
嗯，好，我们快去救宫主吧。¤Okay, let's quickly go save the palace lord.
{$Lin}放心，有我在，不会有事的。¤{$Lin}, rest assured that I am here, nothing will happen.
唔，那也只能向前了。¤Well, then we can only move forward.
嗯，好，那我们快去救宫主吧。¤Mhm, okay, then let's quickly go save the palace lord.
{$Lin}放心，我会保护你的。¤{$Lin}, rest assured that I will protect you.
那怎么办，我们先退出去观察下情况么？¤What should we do? Should we first withdraw and observe the situation?
不但被加强不止一星半点，还加入许多变化，看来我们贸然进入是有些莽撞了。¤Not only has it been strengthened by more than one and a half stars, but it has also incorporated many changes. It appears that our reckless entry was somewhat reckless.
这...我从未见过如此不祥的阵法，感觉就像一个更为强大的落魂阵。¤This...I have never seen such an ominous array before, it feels like a more powerful Falling Soul Array.
一进入阵法中，空间便是昏暗了起来，你们纵是作为修仙之人也难以视物，除此之外更是有刺耳的哀嚎不断地传入你们耳中，其中夹杂着的尖利悲啸刺激着你们的魂体，以至于都不敢展开神识探测，只能靠肉眼勉强辨认，而后谨慎摸索前进。¤As soon as you enter the array, the space becomes dim, making it difficult to see even for cultivators. In addition, there are constantly piercing screams mixed with sharp and mournful cries that stimulate your soul body, making you hesitant to even use your soul sense to explore. You can only rely on your naked eyes to move forward carefully.
{color=#d0380a}西南方{/color}好像有战斗的波动，宫主应该在那边。希望她能坚持到我们过去。¤{color=#d0380a}The southwest direction{/color} seems to have a wave of combat, the palace lord should be over there. Hopefully she can hold on until we get there.
（这傀儡看起来绝非凡物，大约有普通元婴修士实力，应该是核心阵基之一了。）¤(The puppet looks extraordinary, with a strength similar to a normal nascent soul cultivator. It should be one of the core formations.)
你略一沉思，而后巧妙的运用几缕灵气轻易破除了此处阵基。¤After a moment of contemplation, you deftly used a few strands of spiritual energy to easily break through the formation here.
（唔，这里似乎是个核心阵基，但...我的阵道领悟不够...）¤(Hmm, this seems to be a core array formation, but...my understanding of array dao is not enough...)
（唔，此处似乎是一处核心阵基。）¤(Oh, it seems to be a core formation array here.)
磔磔磔，待我将你们擒下，便将你小子的血肉神魂尽皆炼为灵气，为我冲虚散人的化神之路添上一块踏脚石。至于林沐心嘛，就让你感受一番曾让我思过百年的采补之术好了。可惜恒...¤Zhe zhe zhe, let me capture you all and refine your blood, flesh, and souls into spiritual energy for adding a stepping stone to my hermit Chong Xu's deity transformation path. As for Lin Muxin, I'll let you experience the collecting and refining technique that made me ponder for a hundred years. Unfortunately, Heng...
可惜刚才下手重了点，让宫主当场陨落了，不然还能让你们一起做个伴，磔磔磔。¤Unfortunately, I went a bit too hard just now and caused the palace master to fall on the spot. Otherwise, I could have let you keep him company and enjoy a good punishment together.
哼，知道了。¤Hmph, understood.
别多嘴！¤Don't talk too much!
磔磔磔，待我将你俩擒下，便让你们感受下这曾害我思过百年的采补之术，可惜恒...¤ZheZheZhe, wait until I capture you both, and make you feel the 'gathering and replenishing' technique that once cost me a hundred years of thinking. Unfortunately, Heng...
哼，我就道阵法怎么可能出了问题，果然是你们这两只老鼠。不过也无妨，我亲爱的星宫宫主已经陨落，接下来就轮到你们了。¤Hmph, I knew the array couldn't have gone wrong. It turns out it was you two rats. But it doesn't matter, my beloved Star Palace Master has already fallen, and now it's your turn.
两人感应到你们的气息，转头看向你们。¤The two sensed your presence and turned to look at you.
你们二人来到西南方的阵眼，冲虚散人与一位不明身份的修士正在此商量着什么。¤You come to the formation in the southwest, Hermit Chong Xu and an unidentified cultivator are discussing something here.
不满在冲虚散人脸上一闪而逝，而后便攻向你，而那神秘修士则是缠上林沐心。¤Dissatisfaction flashed on the face of Hermit Chong Xu and then attacked towards you, while the mysterious cultivator engaged with Lin Muxin.
少跟他们啰嗦，赶紧动手。¤Stop babbling with them and get to work quickly.
下辈子可要记好别再惹我。哦不，我要让你们的血肉神魂都被炼作灵气，为我冲虚散人的化神之路再添两枚踏脚石，方能解我心头之恨！¤Remember not to provoke me in your next life. Oh no, I will refine your flesh and soul into spiritual energy, adding two more stepping stones to my path of deity transformation as a hermit of the Chongxu sect, only then can I relieve my inner hatred!
你们这两只老鼠既已闯入我这奇门绝魂阵，就让你们见识下阵法的威能吧，磔磔磔。¤Since you two mice have already entered my Qimen Jue Soul Array, let me show you the power of formations. Zhe zhe zhe.
哼，方才还在想阵法出了什么问题，果然是有老鼠进来了啊，不过也无妨，我亲爱的宫主已经陨落，接下来就到你们了。¤Hmph, just now I was thinking about what went wrong with the array, it seems that a mouse has come in, but it doesn't matter. My dear Palace Master has already fallen, so it's your turn next.
他身旁则是一位遮住面部的不明修士，在你们近旁还有重伤倒地的星宫宫主。¤He was accompanied by an unidentified cultivator who covered his face, while there was also a heavily injured star palace master lying nearby.
你们二人来到西南方的阵眼，冲虚散人屹立于阵法空间中，其周身环绕着悲啸的怨魂，宣示着冲虚散人阵法主人的身份。¤You two arrived at the southwestern node of the array, where Hermit Chong Xu stood tall in the empty space of the formation, surrounded by wailing grudges that declared his identity as the master of the array.
你们二人来到西南方的阵眼，冲虚散人屹立于昏暗的阵法空间中，宣示着冲虚散人阵法主人的身份。¤You two arrived at the southwest node of the formation. The hermit Chong Xu stood tall in the dim space of the array, declaring their identity as the master of the Chong Xu hermit formation.
磔磔磔，我刚才还觉得少了些什么，这就送上门来了么。¤Zhe zhe zhe, just when I thought something was missing, it was delivered to me like this.
你们二人来到西南方的阵眼，冲虚散人屹然立于昏暗的阵法空间中，其周身环绕着悲啸的怨魂，宣示着冲虚散人阵法主人的身份。¤You two arrived at the array node in the southwest, where Hermit Chong Xu stands tall in the dim array space, surrounded by mournful and wailing vengeful spirits, proclaiming his identity as the master of this array.
哼，我就道阵法怎么可能出了问题，果然是你们这两只老鼠。不过也无妨，就让你们见识见识我古神教的强大秘术吧。¤Hmph, how could the formation technique have gone wrong? It's really because of you two rats. But it doesn't matter, I'll let you witness the power of my ancient god sect's secret arts.
你们二人来到西南方的阵眼，冲虚散人与一位不明身份的修士正在失去效用的阵法中商量着什么。¤You both arrived at the formation eye in the southwest, where Hermit Chong Xu and an unidentified cultivator were discussing something in a failing array.
罢了，我们也回去吧。¤Let's go back then, that's it.
她居然是化神期...¤She is actually in the deity transformation stage...
她，就这么走了？¤Did she just leave like that?
不知是因为那脸上难掩的苦涩，还是对你们冷漠的态度，让你突然觉得这张脸又陌生了起来。¤I don't know if it's because of the bitterness on that face, or the indifferent attitude towards you, but it suddenly makes you feel like this face is once again a stranger to you.
星铃儿朝你和林沐心看了一眼，而后便直接往星宫方向踏空而去，其速度之快远超元婴修士的极限，甚至即便是擅长遁术的元婴巅峰修士燃血而遁也难企及。¤Star Bell glanced at you and Lin Muxin before heading directly towards the Star Palace, moving at a speed far beyond the limit of even a Nascent Soul cultivator, and even a peak Nascent Soul cultivator who excels in mobility techniques would find it difficult to catch up even by burning their blood.
甚至本应在此的冲虚散人也不知是化为了齑粉还是被在刚在的战斗中被击飞到了不知何处。至于逃跑，他肯定是没这个能耐。¤Even the hermit Chong Xu, who should have been here, is either turned into powder or was blasted away to an unknown location during the recent combat. As for escape, he definitely did not have the ability.
映入眼帘的，只有广袤的天空，无垠的黄土，矗立于中的橘裙女性修士以及她怀抱里的另一位身着蓝裙疑似宫主的女修。除此之外，再无它物。¤The only thing that comes into view is the broad sky, the boundless yellow earth, the female cultivator in an orange skirt standing in the middle, and another female cultivator in a blue skirt who appears to be the sect leader, held in her embrace. There is nothing else.
你走过去将林沐心扶起，而后将目光投向战斗所在地。¤You walk over to help Lin Muxin up and then direct your gaze towards the location of the combat.
这就是化神强者么，竟恐怖如斯...¤Is this the powerhouse of deity transformation? It's so terrifying...
而一旁的林沐心就有些狼狈了，她毕竟不擅长于防御一道，面对化神强者一击的余波竟已是跌坐在地，久久未能站起身来。¤And Lin Muxin next to her was a bit embarrassed, as she was not good at defending against attacks. Faced with the aftermath of a strike from a Deity Transformation expert, she fell and sat on the ground, unable to stand up for a long time.
战斗的余波携天地之威四溢，周遭的灵植凡木尽皆化为飞灰。你们由于所处的位置较近，也是切身体会了这一击余波的威力。¤The aftermath of the battle overflowed with the power of heaven and earth, causing all the surrounding spiritual plants to turn into ashes. Due to your proximity, you also personally experienced the impact of this residual wave.
你倒还好，只感觉像是一条元婴期暴龙迎面撞来，虽让你有些气血骤起且行气不畅，但还勉强能保持站立的姿态。¤You're alright, but you feel like you've been hit head-on by a nascent soul cruel dragon, causing your lifeforce to surge and your breathing to become unsmooth, but you can still barely stand.
正当你们猜测来者是谁时，那边已经是开战。¤Just as you were guessing who the incoming person was, the battle has already begun over there.
林沐心只是迷茫的摇摇头，示意自己完全没头绪。¤Lin Muxin shook her head in confusion, indicating that she had no idea what was going on.
好像是阵法被破后引来了化神修士...此处接近竹山宗和化尘教，难道是这两派中的高人？¤It seems like after the array was broken, a Deity Transformation cultivator was attracted... This is close to the Bamboo Mountain Sect and Shifting Sand Sect. Could it be a powerful figure from these two sects?
你们正在赶往之前战斗波动出现的位置时，却看见一位修士自东北方踏空而来，其速度之快远超元婴修士的极限，甚至即便是擅长遁术的元婴巅峰修士燃血而遁也难企及。¤When you were rushing to the location where the previous combat fluctuation had appeared, you saw a cultivator stepping on air from the northeast at a speed far beyond the limit of a nascent soul cultivator, even a peak nascent soul cultivator proficient in mobility technique.
去其他地方看看吧。¤Go and have a look at other places.
而且，那洞府只怕也是在战斗中被夷为平地了。¤Furthermore, that cave  is probably also destroyed in the battle .
嗯，方位肯定不会错，看来是在战斗中出现了什么变故。导致这本该是副门主洞府的地方灵气失衡，乃至数日过去还未恢复。¤Uh, the location is definitely not wrong. It seems that something unexpected happened during the battle. This caused the spiritual energy balance of what should have been the vice sect master's cave to be disrupted, and even after several days it still has not recovered.
难道...¤Is it possible that...
这里的灵气浓度还不及武陵城客栈，他一个金丹修士怎会于此设下洞府？¤The spiritual energy density here is not as thick as that of the Wuling City Inn. How could a Golden Core cultivator establish a cave here?
奇怪，他们副门主的洞府应该就在此处才对。¤Strange, their vice sect leader's cave should be located right here.
其他也没什么了，去其他地方看看吧。¤There is nothing else, go and see other places.
看来这门主与那魔修战力相差确实不止一星半点。¤It seems that the power gap between this sect leader and that demon cultivator is indeed more than just a little bit.
若不是{$ZaiXia}有位师妹正好与其相识，曾在传音符中留下过神识印记确认了其身死，只看这战场还以为他已是脱身而去。¤If it weren't for {$ZaiXia}'s acquaintance, who happened to be his sister-apprentice, leaving a soul sense imprint in the sound talisman confirming his death, just by looking at this battlefield, one would think he had already escaped.
嗯。据言此处就是该门派门主的洞府所在，而那门主被魔修一剑斩入药田后，应当是尸骨无存。¤Hmm. It is said that this is where the sect leader's cave is located, and after the leader was killed by a demonic cultivator and sent flying into the herbs field, their body was completely destroyed.
看来这里就是主要战场了。¤It seems like this is the main battlefield.
这块不大的药田已是被那魔修斜斩成两半，药田中的剑痕先不说深度，单单其中看似缓慢却不断弥漫的血气就足以让金丹修士倒吸一口凉气。若不是有这血气剑痕的存在，只怕洞府阵法内的“灵雾“早已消失殆尽。¤This small herbs field has already been sliced in half by the demonic cultivator's diagonal slash. Not to mention the depth of the sword marks in the field, the slow but continuous diffusion of the blood aura alone is enough to make even a Golden Core cultivator draw a cold breath. If it weren't for the existence of these sword marks with the blood aura, the spirit mist inside the cave array would have long since disappeared.
而那药田也只是形状保持完整而已。¤And that herb field only maintained its shape.
说是废墟，但细看之后反倒觉得废墟都不至于如此残破。除药田还相对完整外，把炼丹房，炼器房与修炼用的密室那切口平整的残垣拼凑在一块，可能都找不出一面完整的墙壁。¤It is said to be ruins, but upon closer inspection, it is actually more dilapidated than ruins. Except for the relatively intact herbs field, it is impossible to find a complete wall by piecing together the flattened ruins of the alchemy room, refining room, and secret chamber used for cultivation.
透过这“灵雾”，映入眼帘的便是阵法的废墟。¤Through this spirit mist, what came into view was the ruins of an array.
而阵法内部，清晰可见的灵气稀释了粘稠的血气，以奇异的方式结合成淡粉色的“灵雾”。¤spirit mist.
这里本应是一处洞府，如今只剩一角残破阵法尚在吸收外界的天地灵气，但该阵法的其他威能尽失如今也只是相当于一个低阶的聚灵阵而已。¤Here should have been a cave, but now only a corner of a broken gathering spirit array remains, still absorbing the spiritual energy of the world outside. However, the other powers of the array have been lost, and now it is only equivalent to a low-level condensing array.
嗯，室内的物事也没有被动过。门派弟子应该都战死在宗门大阵那里了。¤Hmm, the things inside the room haven't been touched either. The sect disciples should have all died in the clan's grand formation.
嗯，室内的物事也没有被动过。门派弟子应该都在其他地方被斩杀了。¤Hmm, nothing in the room seems to have been touched. Sect disciples should have been killed elsewhere.
此处是弟子居所。这里...完全没有战斗留下的痕迹。¤This is the disciple residence. There are no traces left from any combat here.
是未被战斗波及，但，此处也可以说是发生过战斗。¤It was not affected by combat, but it can also be said that combat occurred here.
这里便是藏经阁，看来此处未被战斗波及，建筑都还算完好。¤Here is the Hidden Manual Pavilion. It seems that this place has not been affected by any combat, and all the buildings are still intact.
{FirstName}{$NickName}观察真是细致，若不是有你提醒，在下险些没想到。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}'s observation is truly meticulous. If it weren't for your reminder, I almost wouldn't have thought of it.
对于一个血剑宫魔修而言，这种小门派的功法神通应该没什么吸引力才对。¤For a Blood Sword Sect devil cultivator, the techniques and divine skills of this small sect should not have much appeal.
不会，虽然阵法已经被毁，但阵基所在之处还有灵核残留。那血剑宫魔修应是在解决了所有修士后，以某种手段破除这藏经阁的守护阵法，并在其中停留了一小段时间，只是不知出于何种目的。¤Not able to, although the array has already been destroyed, there are still remnants of spiritual cores where the array was located. The demonic cultivator from Blood Sword Palace probably used some method to break through the protective array of Hidden Manual Pavilion after dealing with all the cultivators, and stayed there for a short period of time, but it is unclear for what purpose.
咦？确实是诶，我都没注意到。会不会是他们藏经阁一直都没有用阵法来守护呢？¤Hmm? It is indeed. I didn't even notice. Could it be that they haven't been using arrays to guard the Hidden Manual Pavilion all along?
藏经阁这种门派重地怎会没有阵法守护呢？¤How could a sect stronghold like the Hidden Manual Pavilion be without array protection?
我不太明白...¤I don't quite understand...
但，现在，显然还不是时候。\n¤However, now is clearly not the time.
听完你的话，他陷入沉思。藏经阁也因此恢复了寂静，且会在你们离开之后长久地沉陷于寂静之中。¤After hearing your words, he fell into deep thought. The Hidden Manual Pavilion also recovered its tranquility, and will sink into silence for a long time after you leave.
唔...¤Hmm...
损耗并不大，此人破阵的风格可比战斗时的手段柔和多了。¤The damage sustained was not significant. This person's style of breaking formation is much gentler compared to their methods during combat.
原来如此，我明白了，还是{FirstName}{$NickName}观察细致，我竟一时疏忽未留意到这藏经阁没有阵法。¤So that's it, I understand now. It's still {FirstName} {$NickName} being observant. I was careless and didn't notice there wasn't an array in this Hidden Manual Pavilion.
也许他对小门派的藏经阁不屑一顾，或是灭门完赶紧离开了吧。\n¤Perhaps he disdains the hidden manual pavilion of the small sect, or perhaps he will quickly leave after destroying the sect.
正是如此。看来这血剑宫魔修在战后还于此停留过一段时间，就是不知出于何种目的。照常理来说，这种小门派的功法神通他应该看不上眼才对。¤That's right. It seems that this Blood Sword Palace demonic cultivator stayed here for a while after the battle, but it's unclear for what purpose. Normally, he shouldn't be interested in the techniques and divine skills of such a small sect.
我也不知为何，还是去其他地方看看吧。¤I don't know why, let's go check out other places.
（居然还有闲情逸致把秘籍全毁掉么。）¤(Unexpectedly still has the leisure to completely destroy the secret manual.)
正常人灭门之后不是应该尽快离开现场么，他为何要把藏经阁中的秘籍都毁掉？¤After the extermination of the clan, shouldn't a normal person leave the scene as soon as possible? Why did he destroy all the secret manuals in the hidden manual pavilion?
只见藏经阁一层的地板上满是碎屑。有的是被绞成齑粉的书籍，有的则是被捏碎的玉佩，当然，也有少数不知名材质的碎渣。料想应该是用来记载相对高阶的功法或神通。¤Only the first floor of the Hidden Manual Pavilion was seen covered in debris. Some were pulverized books, some were crushed jade pendants, and of course, there were also a few fragments of unknown materials. It is estimated that they were used to record relatively high-level techniques or divine skills.
你走上前去，视线越过{$npcid}投向室内。¤You walk forward, your gaze passing over {$npcid} and settling on the interior of the room.
{$ZaiXia}不知道该怎么说，还是{FirstName}{$Nickname}自己来看吧。¤{$ZaiXia} I don't know what to say, maybe {FirstName}{$Nickname} should see for themselves.
怎么了？¤What's wrong?
只听“吱呀”一声，藏经阁的古旧大门应声而开，于此同时一声短促像是经过压抑的低声惊呼传入你的耳中。¤Just as you heard “creeak”, the ancient gate of the Hidden Manual Pavilion opened with a loud noise, and at the same time, a short, repressed gasp of surprise came into your ears.
{$npcid}一边说着，一边就打算推门进入藏经阁。¤{$npcid} said, while planning to push the door and enter the Hidden Manual Pavilion.Note
嗯，我们进去看看吧。¤Well, let's go in and take a look.
看来这血剑宫魔修在战后还于此停留过一段时间，就是不知出于何种目的。照常理来说，这种小门派的功法神通他应该看不上眼才对。¤It seems that the demonic cultivator of the Blood Sword Palace stayed here for a period of time after the war, but it is unknown for what purpose. Normally, he should not be interested in the techniques and divine skills of small sects like this.
你右手一挥，一些灵核碎片从藏经阁周遭的隐蔽处向你飞来。途中剔除一些已被损耗的碎片后，将相对完好的部分收入储物袋中。¤Your right hand waves and some spirit core fragments fly towards you from the hidden corners of the manual pavilion. After removing some of the damaged fragments along the way, you collect the relatively intact pieces into the storage pouch.
损耗并不大，此人破阵的风格可比传闻中的手段柔和多了。¤The loss wasn't significant. This person's style of breaking formation is much gentler compared to the rumors.
不无可能。¤Not impossible.
可能是为了激起这小门派的门主与副门主的愤怒？然后让他们因此在战斗中露出更多破绽什么的...¤Perhaps it was to provoke the anger of the sect masters and vice-masters of this small sect? And then make them reveal more flaws in combat because of it...
也许只是随意地一刀刚好劈在牌位上吧，这里好像没有其他值得注意的东西了。¤Perhaps it was just randomly slicing the board, and there doesn't seem to be anything else worth noting here. 
有太多种可能，在下目前也没头绪。¤There are too many possibilities, and I currently have no clue.
有太多种可能，我目前也没头绪。¤There are too many possibilities, and I currently have no clue.
这一剑看起来像是故意落在牌位上，但此举有什么意义呢。¤This sword seems to have deliberately fallen on the card, but what is the significance of this action?
供桌已经是断为三截，正中的一截与其上本摆放着的牌位在神通之下早已化为飞灰，左右两截则与剩下的牌位一同散落在剑痕附近。¤The offering table had already been cut into three pieces, the middle piece and the tablet placed on top of it had turned to ashes under the power of divine skill, while the two remaining pieces along with the remaining tablet scattered near the sword marks.
而当中供奉的祖师牌位及其供桌就没这么好运了。¤However, the ancestral tablet and offering table of the guest elder did not have such good luck.
这里本是大殿，门派传承中最重要的地方。但如今已是被一剑由当中斩作两半，徇剑痕望去，大殿中的蒲团和雕塑等物事都还完好，只是落了些灰在上面而已。¤This was originally the main hall, the most important place for the faction's inheritance. But now it has been split in half by a sword, and looking at the sword marks, the mats and sculptures in the main hall are still intact, just a little dusty on top.
想不到{$NpcName}对这里还挺熟悉。¤Unexpectedly, {$NpcName} is quite familiar with this place.
{color=#d0380a}副门主洞府{/color}还未去过，要去看看么？\n¤{color=#d0380a}Vice Sect Master's Cave{/color} haven't been visited yet, do you want to go and take a look?
{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}还未去过，先去看看吧。¤{color=#d0380a}Have not been to the Hidden Manual Pavilion yet, let's go take a look.{/color}
是护宗阵法方向！我们快过去。¤The direction is towards the protective formation of the sect! Let's hurry over there.
可惜副门主洞府附近的阵法已被那莽夫破坏殆尽了，不然还能再多一金丹修士的生魂，只能将就将就了，磔磔磔。¤Unfortunately, the array near the cave of the deputy sect leader has been almost completely destroyed by that brute. Otherwise, there could have been one more cultivator with a Golden Core. We can only make do with what we have. *Sound of hitting wood against wood.*
磔磔，那血剑宫的疯子果然上门找麻烦了，没白费我偷溜进来后暗中设下的拘魂阵。¤Zhé Zhé, the madman from the Blood Sword Palace really came looking for trouble, but it wasn't for nothing that I secretly set up the Soul Detaining Formation after sneaking in.
你与{$NpcName}正讨论时，一阵阴恻恻的笑声从护宗阵法方向传来。¤When you were discussing with {$NpcName}, a sinister laughter came from the direction of the protective formation.
嗯，稍微知道些。¤Um, I know a little.
毕竟是在下的任务，还是有过了解的。只是掌握的信息还是太少，在下也提供不了更多的帮助了。¤After all, it is my task, and I do have some understanding. However, the information I have is still too limited, and I cannot provide any further assistance.
是有过了解，但也只知道这么多。¤I have some understanding, but only know this much.
嘿嘿，其实是接受任务时有给我讲述过啦。¤Hey hey, actually when accepting the quest, it was explained to me.
{$NpcName}也不急着出手攻击，而是转过头来与你交换了个眼神。¤{$NpcName} didn't immediately strike, but instead turned their head and exchanged a glance with you.
{$NpcName}一击破坏那脆弱的拘魂阵后，在阵中邪修惊愕的眼神中，你的攻击不期而至。¤After breaking the fragile Soul Detaining Formation with a strike, {$NpcName}'s attack came unexpectedly upon the startled gaze of the demonic cultivator within the formation.
好，交给{$ZaiXia}吧。¤Okay, I'll leave it to {$ZaiXia}.
让我来吧，{$NpcName}在一旁看着别让他跑了就好，我还有很多事情想好好问问他呢。¤Let me do it. {$NpcName} is watching, so make sure he doesn't run away. I have a lot of things I want to ask him.
{$NpcName}见状也不犹豫，手捏法诀，就要驱使法宝攻击阵法。¤Upon seeing this, {$NpcName} did not hesitate and quickly formed hand seals to command their artifact to strike the array.
你们二人赶到宗门大阵附近时，那人正站在不知何时设下的拘魂阵中，试图淬炼手中满是繁复密纹的深色幡类法宝。¤When the two of you rushed to the vicinity of the clan's grand formation, that person was standing in the soul detaining formation that was set up at an unknown time, attempting to refine the complex and intricate dark-colored banner-like artifact in his hand.
{$NpcName}过奖了，只是这魔修实力不济而已。¤{$NpcName} is too kind, it's just that this demon cultivator's strength is lacking.
{FirstName}{$NickName}的实力真是让我大开眼界了，原只道金丹修士在战斗时打不过还是能跑的，{FirstName}{$NickName}却能生擒金丹修士，只怕击杀他更是轻而易举。¤I was truly amazed by the strength of {FirstName}{$NickName}. I thought that Golden Core cultivators could at least run away if they couldn't win a fight, but {FirstName}{$NickName} was able to capture one. I can only imagine that killing one would be even easier.
以你丰富的战斗经验又怎么会放过这等好机会，立时便驱动法宝一顿猛攻，随后而至的强力神通更是直接让其丧失战斗力。¤With your abundant combat experience, how could you let such a good opportunity slip by? Immediately, you drive your artifact to launch a fierce attack, and the subsequent use of powerful divine skills directly renders your opponent incapacitated in combat.
不知是出于顾忌在一旁盯着他的{$NpcName}，还是已然灵气枯竭，这魔修在硬结一记躲不开的攻击神通后，出现了短暂的停顿。¤It's unclear whether it's due to the presence of {$NpcName} watching him from the side or because his spiritual energy had already depleted, but this demonic cultivator paused briefly after taking a hit from an unavoidable divine skill attack.
{$NpcName}见此情形更是早已放松警惕，在一旁为你鼓掌叫好。¤{$NpcName} witnessed this situation and had already relaxed his/her guard, applauding and cheering for you on the side.
这魔修虽是实力不错，但还远不如你。初时，他还能与你正面碰撞一番，可几招过后就只能在慌乱中躲闪你的法宝及神通。¤This demonic cultivator may have decent strength, but is still far inferior to you. Initially, he could withstand your attacks head-on, but after a few moves, he could only dodge your artifacts and divine skills in panic.
如今禾山道和沂山派之间已经彻底反目，我还是不要在这里闲逛了。¤At present, the relationship between the Mt. Harvest Sect and Mt. Yi Sect has completely deteriorated, so I better not loiter around here.
沂山双鬼死后，沂山派很快便分崩离析了，如今此地已经成为了一片废墟。¤After the death of the Mt. Yi Twin Ghosts, the Mt. Yi Sect quickly disintegrated and now the area has become ruins.
在下阴魂岛岛主李司魂，愿为{$xiaoyou}解惑，{$xiaoyou}可有什么想知道的？¤I am Li Sihun, the Lord of Ghost Island. I am willing to clear up any confusion for {$xiaoyou}. What do you want to know? 
神阴石是极阴三海中罕见的纯黑石块，由阴气与神识共同汇集而成，多于一些海岛上出现。¤Shenyin stone is a rare, pure black stone block found in the extreme yin three seas, formed by the gathering of yin energy and soul sense, often appearing on some islands.
老头，若此话当真，你岂不是重生有望了？¤Old man, if what you say is true, then you might have a chance at reincarnation.
自然没有，本座为何要在此处渡劫？¤There is no such thing as nature's tribulation. Why would I choose to undergo tribulation here?
话虽如此，不过我有预感，此事不会这么简单…¤Although it may be said so, I have a premonition that this matter is not going to be easy...
旁白¤Narration
阴魂岛内除了适合{color=#d0380a}魂体{/color}修炼之外，最重要的是有一套适合灵魂体的{color=#d0380a}体系{/color}。¤Within Ghost Island, besides being a suitable place for cultivating the Soul Body, the most important thing is that there is a set of system that is suitable for the Linghun Body.
灵魂体比修士弱得多，如果没有一套互惠的体系，便根本无法立足。¤The soul body is much weaker than cultivators, and without a mutually beneficial system, it simply cannot stand.
你不再收敛修为，释放出了一丝化神的威压，岛主马上便察觉到了这一点。¤You no longer restrain your cultivation, releasing a hint of deity transformation's might suppression. The island master immediately noticed this.
此乃阴魂岛重地，{$xiaoyou}还是不要靠近为好。¤This is a sacred place of the Ghost Island. It is better for you, {$xiaoyou}, to stay away.
此术乃是不知多少万年前，机缘巧合下所得，你又从何听起？¤This technique was obtained by chance countless thousands of years ago. How did you come to hear of it?
“老头，在这三冥海渡劫莫非有何不妥？”¤Old man, is there anything improper about crossing the Three Dark Seas to undergo tribulation?
以你化神期的实力，别人自然也看不出任何端倪。¤With your deity transformation level strength, others naturally cannot see any clues.
你不希望他们因为境界差距而改变对你的态度，便将自身修为隐藏了起来。¤You do not want them to change their attitude towards you because of the difference in realm, so you hide your own cultivation. 
自古以来这阴魂岛便存在于此，至于可以追溯到什么时期老夫也不得而知。¤From ancient times, this Ghost Island has always existed here. As for when it can be traced back to, this humble one does not know.
不过{$xiaoyou}既然是修士之身，眼下倒是有两件事需要道友帮忙，若能办成其中一件，这逆天造化术便归道友了。¤However, as a cultivator, {$xiaoyou} currently has two things that require the assistance of fellow daoists. If one of them can be accomplished, then the defying good fortune technique will belong to fellow daoist.
老夫也正是因为此物，才在这阴魂岛有些威望。¤Because of this item, I have gained some prestige on this Ghost Island.
司徒礼意味深长地看了你一眼。¤Situ Li looked at you deeply with significant meaning.
整座岛充满了阴郁的气息，看上去不太适合人类居住，也许只有灵魂体会选择栖息在这样的岛上吧。¤The soul body would only be used if it is a proper noun or title, while soul body would be used for general reference.
岛主¤Island owner.
越过一座稍微大些的山峰，顿觉柳暗花明——远方赫然有一个极为显眼的灰白色气旋，从地面一直盘旋到天际。众多灵魂体纷纷聚集在气旋四周，场面颇为壮观。¤After crossing a slightly larger mountain, there was a sudden change in scenery there was a very noticeable grey-white vortex in the distance, coiling around from the ground to the sky. Numerous soul bodies gathered around the vortex, creating a magnificent scene.
若你有心，且去了解一下任务内容也无妨。¤If you have the intention, it is not a bad idea to understand the tasks without explaining the usage of certain keywords.
在这极阴三海上，由于被极强的阴气覆盖，一些修为较高或神识较强的修士死后，元神并不会立刻溃散，而是会依附于这阴气之上，形成自己的{color=#d0380a}阴体{/color}。¤On the Extreme Yin Three Seas, due to the strong Yin energy coverage, when some cultivators with higher cultivation levels or stronger soul senses die, their Yuan God will not immediately disperse, but will instead attach to this Yin energy and form their own Yin body.
这重铸肉身之法名为{color=#d0380a}逆天造化术{/color}，灵魂体若使用此术，便可重新铸造一副与生前无二的身躯。¤The method of remolding the flesh is called {color=#d0380a}defying good fortune{/color} technique. If the soul body uses this technique, it can remake a body that is unique from its previous life.
“这三冥海阴气极重，恐怕不是渡劫的好地方，你还是不要答应他为好。”¤This Three Dark Sea has extremely heavy gloominess, I'm afraid it's not a good place for tribulation. It's better for you not to agree to it.
你自然要说已经找到了解决方法，不然此术岂不是空中楼阁？¤You naturally have to say that you have already found a solution, otherwise wouldn't this technique be nothing but a castle in the air?
呵呵，之所以还是这副模样，是因为这逆天造化术的使用要求极为严苛。¤Hehe, the reason why I still look like this is because the usage requirements of the Defying Good Fortune technique are extremely harsh.
只是想不到，有朝一日我还真要用到它。¤Just didn't expect that one day I would actually need it.
呵呵，此术可不是能轻易获得的，只有收集到{color=#d0380a}五块神阴石{/color}才可与我交换，阴魂岛上历来便是这个规矩。¤Haha, this technique is not easily gained. Only by collecting {color=#d0380a}five Shenyin Stones{/color} can you exchange them with me. This has been the rule on Ghost Island for a long time.
尽管不如正常修士效果明显，但灵魂体也是可以修炼的。¤Although not as effective as normal cultivators, soul bodies can also cultivate.
“虽然我对渡劫之事知之甚少，不过渡劫地点确实是至关重要、需要好好筛选的。”¤Although I know very little about the tribulation, selecting the location is crucial and needs to be carefully chosen.
阴体的本质是我们所依附的阴气，阴气修炼的越凝实，就越接近于修士的身体。¤The essence of the Yin body is the Yin Qi that we rely on. The more condensed the Yin Qi cultivation is, the closer it is to the cultivator's body.
…若真有这么神奇的秘术，岛主为何不先给自己重铸一个肉身？¤If there really is such a miraculous secret art, why doesn't the island lord first use it to rebuild his own flesh? 
你迟疑地看了他一眼。¤You looked at him hesitantly.
嗯…¤Hmm...
你不知不觉便被这场景吸引了过去。而与此同时，不远处一个极为凝实的灵魂体也发现了你，朝你飞了过来。¤You unconsciously are attracted by this scene. At the same time, a very solid soul body not far away also noticed you and flew towards you.
…若当真如此，要如何才能获得？¤If that is true, how can one gain it? 
我们用外界修士需要的一些情报、草药等，换取{color=#d0380a}神阴石{/color}、以及帮我们清除一些威胁。¤We exchange information and herbs that external cultivators need for shenyin stone {color=#d0380a}{/color}, as well as their help in removing threats.
“嗯。”¤Hmm.
偶尔有外界修士来此交易，由于是互惠互利的关系，外界修士也很少透露我们的存在，避免更多人前来竞争。¤Occasionally, external cultivators come here to trade. Due to the mutually beneficial relationship, external cultivators rarely reveal our existence to avoid more people coming to compete.
那{$xiaoyou}便四处看看罢，有什么不懂的再问老夫便是。¤Then, {$xiaoyou} can take a look around and ask me if there's anything they don't understand.
那在下便恭候前辈的好消息了。¤Then I will respectfully await the senior's good news.
这些只是一群小角色，无需理会他们，直接去岛内打探罢。¤These are just a group of minor characters, no need to pay attention to them, go directly to the island for investigation.
主角¤main character.
阴气旋能聚集大量的阴气供灵魂体修炼，所以才会有大量的灵魂体聚集于此。¤Yin cyclones can gather large amounts of yin energy for the soul body's cultivation, which is why there are many soul bodies gathered here.
修炼分两个方向，一个是通过{color=#d0380a}神阴石{/color}修炼自己的神识，另一个则是利用{color=#d0380a}阴气旋{/color}修炼自己的{color=#d0380a}阴体{/color}。¤There are two directions of cultivation, one is to cultivate one's soul sense using the shenyin stone, and the other is to cultivate one's yin body using the yin cyclone.
听完这番话，你表面陷入沉思，实则是在用神念沟通铁剑中的魏无极。¤After listening to these words, you fell into a contemplative state on the surface, but in reality, you were using your divine sense to communicate with Wuji in the iron sword.
若前辈肯在三冥海渡劫，这逆天造化术在下便双手奉上。¤If Senior is willing to undergo Tribulation in the Three Dark Seas, I will offer the Defying Heaven Fortuitous Technique with both hands.
不过老夫已经找到了解决之道，要重回人形不过是时间问题而已。¤However, I have already found the solution. Returning to my human form is just a matter of time.
此物对修士并无大用，但对我等灵魂体却大有裨益。{$xiaoyou}若有寻到，与我兑换一些天才地宝，也算是互惠互利了。¤This item is of little use to cultivators, but it has great benefits for our soul bodies. If you {$xiaoyou} find it, exchange it with me for some heavenly treasures, and we can both benefit.
阴体最开始甚至连一块石头都拿不起来，但修炼过后却能如臂使指。阴体修的越强，{color=#d0380a}重铸肉身{/color}的可能性也就越高。¤At the beginning, Yin Tian couldn't even lift a stone, but after cultivating, he could move it effortlessly. The stronger his Yin body cultivated, the higher the possibility of rebuilding the flesh became.
原来前辈乃是化神修为，此前在下有所不敬，还望前辈海涵…¤Originally the senior had cultivation to transform into a deity, and I had been disrespectful before. I ask for the senior's forgiveness...
至于事情的详细内容，道友去向之恒与无尘那打听即可。¤As for the detailed contents of the matter, fellow daoist can inquire with Xiang Zhiheng and Wu Chen.
他浑身灰白，一副饱经风霜的花甲老人模样，一眼看去便觉实力不俗。¤He was completely gray-white, with the appearance of a weathered and experienced old man. At first glance, his strength was impressive.
岛上零星点缀着一座座不太高的山，地面也起伏不平。¤The island is dotted with low mountains and uneven ground.
随着你越来越接近，四周灵魂体也越来越多——他们看上去极为透光，似乎随时都会被风吹散一般。¤As you approach closer, more and more soul bodies appear around you they look extremely transparent and as if they could be blown away by the wind at any moment.
这…倒也不算什么秘密了。¤This... isn't considered a secret.
将阴魂岛作为据点，灵魂体既可以在此{color=#d0380a}修炼{/color}，又可共同抵御外敌，还能吸引特殊的{color=#d0380a}修士{/color}前来{color=#d0380a}交易{/color}，一举三得。¤Using Ghost Island as a stronghold, the soul body can both {color=#d0380a}cultivate{/color} and cooperate in defending against external enemies, while also attracting special {color=#d0380a}cultivators{/color} to {color=#d0380a}trade{/color}, accomplishing three goals at once.
此事本座无法答应你，秘术之事就按此前说的来罢。¤I cannot promise you this matter, let the secret arts be handled as previously discussed.
作为一名修士，灵魂体们无不对你侧目。时常有三五成群的灵魂体小声议论你。¤As a cultivator, the soul bodies without exception all give you sidelong glances. Frequently, three to five soul bodies will quietly discuss you.
况且若这秘术当真如此神奇，我怎会从未听说？¤Furthermore, if this secret arts is truly so miraculous, how come I've never heard of it?
但这也不是必然之事，至于什么情况元神能留存下来，什么情况不能，就不得而知了。¤But this is not a definite matter either. As to when the yuan god can be preserved, and when it cannot, it is hard to say.
呵呵，难得有修士来此，欢迎欢迎。¤Hehe, it's rare to have a cultivator come here, welcome welcome.
只是…前辈可有考虑过在这三冥海渡劫？¤Only... Senior, have you considered crossing the Three Hells tribulation here?
此乃阴魂岛重地，任何人不得闯入。¤This is a critical area of Ghost Island, and no one is allowed to trespass.
下面也不知道是危险还是机缘，不值得为此与阴魂岛翻脸。¤Below, I don't know if it's dangerous or an opportunity, it's not worth fighting with Ghost Island over it.
非也在不远处引发了一场骚动，所有目光都被吸引了过去，你便借此机会顺利地潜入了气旋。¤Nonetheless, a commotion was stirred not far away, catching everyone's attention, and you took this opportunity to smoothly sneak into the vortex.
这阴气气旋把守重重，而且贸然下去也不安全，还是不要冒险为好。¤This yin qi cyclone is heavily guarded and it's not safe to go down recklessly. It's better not to take risks.
呵。我倒要看看你有何能耐，竟能如此猖狂。¤Hmm. I want to see what skills you have, to be so arrogant.
…不错，阁下是如何发现我的？¤Not bad, how did you discover me?
敢问是有何处冒犯了前辈？¤May I ask where did I offend senior? 
你抬手指向了那杆幡。¤You pointed your finger at that flagpole.
有了引路人之后，你很快便来到了大长老的所在之处。¤After having a guide, you quickly arrived at the location of the grand elder.
顺着打听来的线索，你飞到了万魂殿大长老的祭炼之地。¤Following the clue you received, you flew to the Myriad Souls Palace Great Elder's land of refining.
既然你残害生灵是为了祭炼此幡，只要你将其交出，并且承诺永不再犯，本座便放你们一马。¤Since you have been harming living beings for the sake of refining this flag, as long as you hand it over and promise never to do it again, I will let you go.
只见一名带着紫色面纱的修士盘腿坐在一个高级聚灵阵中央，正祭炼着一支不似单人能使用的巨幡，其上赫然写了个“万”字。¤I saw a cultivator with a purple veil sitting cross-legged in the center of a high-level gathering spirit array, refining a giant flag that couldn't be used by a single person. The word Ten Thousand was written on it prominently.
哼，何人胆敢擅创我万魂殿？¤Hmph, who dares to create a disturbance in my Wan Hun Hall?
你本想敛息靠近，静观其变。不料刚落脚，便被发现了。¤You wanted to restrain and get close, and watch in silence for changes. Unexpectedly, as soon as you landed, you were discovered.
这……他们本就是已死之人，在下不过是将其加以利用而已。¤This... they were already dead people to begin with. I am just utilizing them.
只见一名带着紫色面纱的修士盘腿坐在一个高级聚灵阵中央，面前插着一支不似单人能使用的巨幡，其上赫然写了个“万”字。¤I see only one cultivator with a purple veil sitting cross-legged in the center of an advanced gathering spirit array. In front of them is a huge flag that doesn't seem to be usable by a single person, on which is written the character 万 .
恕在下未曾远迎，不知前辈来此有何贵干？¤Apologies for not coming to greet you from afar, may I ask what brings the senior here?
…话是不错。¤The words are not bad.
见到你后，她便停下了手头之事，站起身来向你作了一揖。¤After seeing you, she stopped what she was doing and stood up to give you a bow.
冒犯倒谈不上，不过是除魔卫道，还他们一份安宁罢了。¤Offense is not the point, it's just about eliminating demons and protecting the way, giving them peace.
毁我阵法，杀我门徒之人便是你了？¤You destroyed my formation, so the one who killed my disciples must be you?
你收集魂体，可就是为了祭炼此幡？¤Are you collecting soul bodies just to refine this flag? 
我问你，你们在这玄冥海设下多座阵法以残害无辜灵魂，可有此事？¤I ask you, have you set up multiple arrays in the deep black sea to harm innocent spirits?
太虚无形，气之本体。肉身虽仍滞留在凡界{color=#d0380a}不断修炼{/color}，精神力量却已经能够沟通太虚之境。¤Tai Xu is formless, the essence of Qi. Although the physical body remains in the mortal realm, {color=#d0380a}cultivation{/color} never ceases, but spiritual power can already communicate with the realm of Tai Xu.
逐渐熟悉这种感觉后，你便开始尝试运用这种新的力量施展足以应对天劫到来的法术...¤After gradually becoming familiar with this feeling, you begin to try using this new power to cast spells that are powerful enough to deal with the arrival of heavenly tribulations...
大首领气得不行，最后决定自己出马，我们负责把幽谷围住别让那猴子跑了就成。¤The chief was very angry, and finally decided to take action himself. We are responsible for surrounding the valley and not letting that monkey escape.
禾山派前，只见许多三五成群的修士神色紧张地奔向山谷，口中还囔囔着“大首领”、“灵猴”的字眼，你便也跟了上去。¤Before the He Shan Sect, many groups of three to five cultivators could be seen rushing nervously towards the mountain valley, murmuring words like Great Leader and Spirit Monkey, and you followed them.
既然你都知道了，那赶紧跟我去幽谷守着吧。¤Since you already know, then come with me to guard the valley.
也不知道他们还记不记得我先前假装沂山派修士的事...前面好像还有不少禾山道的修士。¤I don't know if they still remember when I pretended to be a Mt. Yi Sect cultivator... it seems like there were also quite a few Mt. Harvest sect cultivators earlier.
你从储物袋里掏出一点灵石，对这种小门小派的修士来说这已经算是一笔巨财了。¤You take out a few spirit stones from the storage pouch. For cultivators from small sects like this, it's already considered a huge fortune.
好！还是{xiongdi}你仗义！¤Okay! It's still you, {xiongdi} who is righteous!
那禾山道修士见此变脸比翻书还快，一张臭脸登时笑出花来，乐呵呵地接下了你的灵石。¤That Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator quickly changed his expression, faster than flipping a book. His sour face immediately broke into a smile as he happily accepted your spirit stones.
由于禾山派手段相较于沂山派更为残忍毒辣，所以周围百姓的处境反倒比之前更加艰难了。¤Due to the more cruel and vicious methods of the Mt. Harvest sect compared to the Mt. Yi sect, the situation of the surrounding common people has become even more difficult than before.
颜老怪¤Yan Old Monster.
杜兄？你怎么会在这？¤Du brother? How come you're here?
好说，好说。¤Okay, okay.
你愿意帮我？¤Do you want to help me?
好一个从正门杀进去，那我便陪你走一遭罢。¤OK, charging through the main gate, then I will accompany you for a while.
他摇了摇头。¤He shook his head.
一旁的禾山道修士感受到你身上散发出的威压，吓得腿脚发软，跪地求饶。有几个修为高些的倒是率先反应过来，一溜烟跑进了幽谷，应当是去告知大首领了。¤The Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator beside you felt the might suppression emanating from your body and became so frightened that they fell to their knees and begged for mercy. Some of the cultivators with higher cultivation levels were the first to react, fleeing into the valley to report to the Sect Leader.
你对禾山道知根知底，此地修为最高的也不过是那个血煞老怪，根本不足为惧。但他们聚集人手的目的还是令你有些在意，你决定前去幽谷一探究竟。¤You have a thorough understanding of the Mt. Harvest Sect, and know that the highest cultivation level of this place is just the Bloodthirsty Old Monster, which is not to be feared. However, you are curious about their gathering of people and decide to investigate by going to the Valley to find out what's going on.
“如今我已结丹，便来会会这颜老怪好了。”¤Now that I have formed my core, I will go meet this geezer yan.
大首领最近有些焦躁，好像是遇到了瓶颈。¤The leader has been a bit anxious lately, as if he has encountered a bottleneck. 
还好办正事儿之前你回来了，快点快点...还傻站着干什么呢？¤Luckily you came back before we had to deal with important matters. Hurry up, hurry up... why are you just standing there foolishly?
你光明正大地从山门走进禾山道大本营，丝毫不掩饰自己的修为。¤You openly walked into the headquarters of Mt. Harvest Sect, not hiding your cultivation at all.
我还说是谁，原来是{xiongdi}你啊。¤I was wondering who it was, turns out it's you, {xiongdi}.
前些日子大首领在山里发现了只妖兽，据说那妖丹服用后对修为有大裨益。这不，兄弟几个都被叫过来一起进山抓妖兽了，可惜那玩意儿跑得飞快，抓了月余连根毛都没捞着...¤A few days ago, the big leader found a spirit beast in the mountains. It is said that the demon core can greatly benefit cultivation when taken. So, several brothers were called to come and catch the spirit beast together. Unfortunately, that thing runs incredibly fast, and after a month of chasing, not even a single hair was caught...
自从沂山双鬼死后，禾山派没了相互制衡的对象，变得愈发猖獗。¤Since the death of the Mt. Yi Twin Ghosts, there hasn't been a balancing force for the He Mountain Sect, making them more reckless.
杜老二¤Du Lao ErExplanation
或许趁他不备之时偷袭于他，会有奇效？¤Perhaps a sneak strike on him when he's unprepared would have a miraculous effect?
禾山派为祸一方，若不是此前实力不足，我早就将其铲除了。¤The He Mountain Sect is a scourge in this region. If it weren't for my insufficient strength earlier, I would have already eradicated them.
大哥见谅，我最近这不是出山搜罗供奉来了。你看，这是我在山下得到的，全都给大哥了。¤I apologize, eldest brother. Recently, I've been out collecting offerings. Look, these are what I obtained at the foot of the mountain. I've brought them all for you, eldest brother.
{w}{w=0.5}你有什么要问的尽管开口！¤{w}{w=0.5}If you have any questions, feel free to speak up!
唉，要我说这境界不也挺好的，有什么着急的。金丹期...恐怕我这辈子都到不了喽。¤Sigh, in my opinion, this realm is already quite good. There's no need to rush things. Golden core...I'm afraid I won't reach it in this lifetime.
你运起敛息术跟上三五成群的禾山道修士，随着他们的脚步来到了幽谷。¤You use the Breath Control Skill to keep up with a group of Mt. Harvest Sect cultivators, following their footsteps to arrive at The Valley.
你是之前那个什么...{FirstName}{LastName}吧？最近山上正缺人手，你{xiaozi}他妈的跑哪去了？¤Are you the previous {FirstName}{LastName}... person? The mountain is currently short on manpower, where the hell did you go, {xiaozi}?
你上前一脚踹翻了禾山道修士，好歹你修练也小有所成，何必与这些炼气修士虚与委蛇。¤You kicked over a Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator with a step, after all, you have also cultivated to a certain extent, why bother wasting time with these Qi Refining cultivators.
结丹之后，我就经常站在这。¤After forming the core, I often stand here.
这禾山道真本事没多少，门内弟子倒是人数众多...¤This Mt. Harvest Sect doesn't have much real ability, but there are many disciples within the sect...
我好像没学过敛息术...还是想想别的办法吧。¤I don't seem to have learned the Breath Control Skill before... Let's think of another solution.
偷袭解不了我心中的恨。只有从正门杀进去，我才觉得痛快！¤Sneak strike cannot resolve the hatred in my heart. Only by killing my way through the front door can I feel truly satisfied!
快点跟我过来，大首领在山里边等着呢！¤Quickly come with me, the Grand Leader is waiting in the mountains!
麻老九¤Old Ninth
刚到山脚，你便注意到不远处有一股与你实力相近的气息。¤Upon arriving at the foot of the mountain, you immediately noticed a qi not far away that was comparable to your own strength.
我想就这么冲进去杀他娘的，但是我又打不过颜老怪，怕白亏了这身修为…¤I want to charge in and kill his mother, but I can't beat Geezer Yan, I'm afraid of wasting my cultivation...
言罢，你二人便直接从正门走进了禾山道。¤After speaking, the two of you walked directly into the Mt. Harvest Sect through the main gate.
唉...大掌柜吞了灵兽的妖丹，因修为不足爆体而亡，我们也只能去别处谋生路了......¤Alas... The shopkeeper swallowed the demon core of the spiritual beast and died from body explosion due to insufficient cultivation. We can only seek livelihood elsewhere...
随着血煞老怪的陨落，一时风光的禾山道已人去楼空，此处已沦落为荒山，没有什么停驻的必要了。¤With the fall of the Blood Demon Old Fiend, the once flourishing Mt. Harvest Sect is now deserted, and has become a desolate mountain, with no need for any stopovers.
现在可不是到处乱跑的时候...¤Now is not the time to be running around everywhere…
这玄古门蹊跷得很，我还是要再转转。¤The Profound Ancient Sect is very mysterious. I think I need to investigate further.
这玄古门蹊跷得很，我还是先找点轩岚诺吧。¤I'm curious about the mystery of the Profound Ancient Sect, but I'll go look for some Xuan Lannuo first.
凭借的你的修为，轻松破解门上的禁制。¤With your cultivation, you easily decode the restrictions on the door.
这些洞府不久前还有人在此修炼，只是不知现在人都在哪里。¤The caves were recently used for cultivation, but it is unknown where the people have gone.
这玄古门是找不到材料把自己也炼丹用了？¤Does this Profound Ancient Sect resort to using themselves as materials in alchemy when they can't find any?
宗门广场上也没人？¤Is there no one on the sect plaza?
算了，先找到人要紧。¤Never mind, finding a person is more important.
看来这下面便是通向了炼血台吧。¤It seems that this is the path leading to the Refined Blood Platform below.
突然那滴血液，钻入池底。¤Suddenly, that drop of blood penetrated into the bottom of the pool.
在法阵的驱动下池中鲜血持续的沸腾蒸发化为一滴暗金色的血液，散溢出来的血气，被周围的灵植吸收后有一枚朱红的小果结出。¤Under the drive of the spell formation, the fresh blood in the pool continued to boil and evaporate, eventually condensing into a dark golden droplet. The overflowing blood essence was absorbed by the surrounding spiritual plants, and a small scarlet fruit was formed as a result.
一进入此地，映入眼帘的就是一只只被钉死在墙壁上的豹麟兽，鲜血入地面的池子中。¤As soon as they entered this place, their eyes were greeted by leopard-unicorn beasts that had been nailed onto the walls, and pools of blood staining the ground.
继续看看吧。¤Continue looking.
看来这下面还是别有洞天嘛。¤It seems there is another grotto below.
眼前的的炼丹房，空无一人。不过架子上一份份丹药与材料倒是吸引你的目光¤The alchemy room in front of you is empty. However, the pills and materials on the shelves catch your eye.
正事要紧，还是不要额外生事了。¤The main thing is important, it's better not to create additional trouble.
以你的阵道修为，很难在不惊动他人的情况下破阵。¤With your array dao cultivation, it's difficult to break formation without alarming others.
{xiaozi}，留神了这玄古门蹊跷的紧啊。¤{Young fellow}, be careful about the mysterious activities of the Profound Ancient Sect.
与外界全力运转的守山大阵不同，眼前的山门甚至没有值守的弟子。¤Unlike the Guarding the Mountain formation that was in full operation with the outside world, the mountain gate in front of them didn't even have disciples standing guard.
嗯，守山大阵全力运转之下宗门内部却连巡逻值守的弟子都没有。¤Well, with the Shoushan Formation operating at full capacity, there isn't even a disciple guarding the clan internally.
这玄古门总不能人丁稀少到这个程度吧¤Could the population of this Profound Ancient Sect really be so scarce?
与外界全力运转的守山大阵格格不入的是眼前的山门甚至没有值守的弟子。¤The mountain gate in front of me is incompatible with the fully-operating Shoushan Great Array outside, as there are no disciples on guard duty.
{xiaozi}，留神了这玄古门的变故恐怕不是小事。¤{xiaozi}, be careful, the changes in the Profound Ancient Sect may not be trivial.
眼前的的炼器室，空无一人。数件法宝挂在墙上，被禁制保护着。¤The refining room in front of the eyes is empty. Several artifacts are hanging on the wall, protected by prohibitions.
轩道友他更是另辟蹊径，彻底摒弃这条路子，看来这原本的炼妖散还是有巨大的隐患。¤Fellow Daoist Xuan has taken a different path, completely abandoning this method. It seems that there are significant hidden dangers with the original demon refining powder.
架子上的典籍已经不见了，但是地面上倒是散落着不少记事玉简。¤The classics on the shelf have disappeared, but there are many jade slips for note-taking scattered on the ground.
看记载好像已经有人开始服用了。¤It seems like someone has already started taking it according to the records.
抛开立场不谈，这玄古门倒还真是有些门道，这种事也能办到。¤Leaving aside the standpoint, the profound ancient sect indeed has some tricks up their sleeves and can accomplish such things.
这上面记载了数百年前，玄古门在护法玄蛊道人的主导下研发出了用豹麟兽精血提纯出麒麟血。¤It is recorded on here that several hundred years ago, under the leadership of Taoist Dark Gu, the Profound Ancient Sect developed the purification of Qilin blood using the essence of leopard and unicorn spirits.
不过，若是着重于吸收精血中的能量助人突破，这样妖化的风险大大降低了。¤However, if one focuses on absorbing the energy from the essence and blood to aid in breakthrough, the risk of demonization is greatly reduced.
只是神兽血脉那是普通人可以承受的？轻则丧失理智，重则爆体而亡。就算是侥幸过关的人也会长出点什么奇奇怪怪的东西。¤Normal should not be capitalized unless it is at the beginning of a sentence.
这群疯子...妖兽异能得天独厚，若是龙族麒麟一类顶级血脉成年便是金丹巅峰，自古以来不知引得多少修士垂涎。¤These lunatics... The spirit beasts have unique abilities. If they are top-tier bloodlines like the dragon clans or qilins, they would be at the peak of the golden core stage when they reach adulthood. Since ancient times, countless cultivators have coveted them.
虽然经过肉体强化，但是炼气期修士基本难以吸收妖力。¤Although strengthened physically, it is generally difficult for cultivators in the qi refining stage to absorb demonic energy.
受试者李天炼气中期，炼妖散-筑基期后期豹麟兽血。¤The subject Li Tian is at mid-stage Qi refining and has used demon refining powder to cultivate the blood of a leopard-lion beast during the late stage of foundation building.
但因为没有吸收妖力，李天没有任何兽化迹象，反而境界突破。¤But because he did not absorb any demonic energy, Li Tian did not show any signs of beastification. Instead, he made a realm breakthrough.
服用后数日修为达到大圆满，且觉醒火系神通，但同时周身长出鳞片出现轻微妖化。¤After taking it for several days, cultivation reached the realm of grand completion, and awoken the divine skill of fire element, but at the same time scales grew all over the body, showing slight demonization.
服用后气息一路暴涨直逼金丹，迅速度过三花聚顶和五气朝元，在凝液成丹阶段狂暴的火灵力失控爆体而亡。¤After taking the medicine, the breath surged all the way to the golden core, quickly passing through the three flowers gathering and the five qi consolidation stages, and during the congealing stage, the frenzy of the fire spirit power became uncontrollable and exploded, resulting in death.
受试者欧阳海筑基后期，炼妖散-金丹期后期火龙血。¤The subject, Ouyang Hai, is in the late foundation establishment stage and has refined a demon using demon refining powder, obtaining the blood of a fire dragon in the late golden core stage.
四月后，彻底妖化发狂力敌元婴修士不落下风后力竭而亡。¤After April, completely transformed into a monster and went crazy, an enemy who can compete with Nascent Soul cultivator, but eventually exhausted and died.
三月后，王陵可以轻松施展天阶火系神通，但出现沟通障碍记忆损失。¤After three months, Wang Ling was able to easily use the Heavenly Fire Avatar divine skill, but he experienced communication obstacles and memory loss.
受试者王陵金丹中期，炼妖散-混合元婴期中期火龙血、麒麟血。¤The subject, Wang Ling, is at the mid golden core stage. They used demon refining powder to mix the blood of a mid nascent soul stage fire dragon and a qilin.
炼妖散？将妖兽血脉融于自身以获得修为精进，甚至可以获得妖兽神通？¤Demon Refining Powder? Fuse one's own bloodline with that of a spirit beast to gain cultivation progress, and even obtain the divine skill of the spirit beast?
这玄古门倒还真是有些门道，这种事也能办到。¤This profound ancient sect really knows some tricks, to be able to achieve such a thing.
道友速去，我没有太多时间了。¤Fellow Daoist, please go quickly. I don't have much time left.
在法阵的驱动下鼎中鲜血持续的沸腾精炼，更吸引你目光的是空中那一粒黑色的小球。¤Under the drive of the array, the fresh blood in the cauldron continued to boil and refine. What attracted your attention even more was the small black ball in the air.
刚一开门，映入眼帘的就是一只只被钉死在墙壁上的妖兽，鲜血汇聚成一条线汇入悬于半空的鼎中。¤As soon as the door opened, the first thing that caught the eye was a series of spirit beasts nailed to the wall, their blood flowing into a cauldron suspended in midair.
此行目的已经达到，我还是趁他回来之前速速离去吧。¤The goal of this trip has been achieved, so I better quickly get out of the way before he comes back.
魔神蛊，这玄古门果然有问题。¤Devil God Gu, there is indeed a problem with Profound Ancient Sect.
眼前是一个个空荡荡的兽笼，但是地面上的血迹和爪痕书写着这里曾经的炼狱景象。¤In front of me are empty animal cages one after another, but the bloodstains and claw marks on the ground write about the scene of this place's past purgatory.
这地牢种种阵法禁制显然是为了人族修士准备。看来这玄古门也没有面上那么“老实”。¤The various array seals in this dungeon are obviously prepared for human cultivators. It seems that the Profound Ancient Sect is not as honest as they appear.
这上面记载了用将蛊虫封入玄古丹的方法。¤On this, there is a record of the method of sealing insects into the Profound Ancient Pill.
架子上空荡荡的，仅有一个玉简吸引着你的目光。¤The empty shelf only had one jade slip that caught your attention.
这蛊虫以虫卵的形式假死，然后还能透过外层丹药吸收微弱的灵气存货。¤This Gu worm feigns death in the form of an egg, and can then absorb faint spiritual energy through the outer layer of pills for storage.
抛开立场不谈，这玄古门倒还真是有些门道，¤Putting aside our respective positions and not discussing it further, this profound ancient sect does seem to have some tricks up their sleeve.
我事先得到了情报，在他们接头时及时带人赶到，抓了个现行。¤I obtained the intelligence beforehand and arrived with people in time for their rendezvous, catching them red-handed.
你发现新的线索了？¤Did you find a new clue?
正当你思索之际，那名男子已经转身向着你的方向大步流星的走来，你决定...¤As you contemplate, the man has already turned around and is walking towards you at a fast pace. You decide...
你准备怎么处置他？¤What do you plan to do with him?
是，大长老。¤Yes, grand elder.
那血剑宫的长老也就罢了，他应该已经逃回了雍州。但琚运琦却是一个隐患。¤That elder of Blood Sword Palace can be ignored, he should have already escaped back to Yongzhou. But Ju Yunqi is a hidden danger.
你希望我来接取这个悬赏么？¤Do you wish for me to undertake this bounty?
此事便交给你了。¤I'll leave it to you then.
血剑宫在数年前攻打白帝楼失败后，又找上了琚运琦。¤The Blood Sword Palace, after failing to attack the White Emperor Pavilion a few years ago, has now targeted Ju Yunqi.
你不动声色的与此人擦肩而过，只觉得他行事作风干练，不怒自威气势逼人，应当实力不俗。¤You passed by this person calmly, feeling that they were skilled in their actions and had a compelling aura without displaying anger, indicating their likely formidable strength.
他已经上了风雨楼的悬赏，不过以他的实力，一般的杀手可能不是他的对手。¤He has already accepted the bounty on Storm Manor, but with his strength, regular assassins may not be his match.
只可惜那琚运琦与血剑宫长老确实实力不俗，我没能留住他们，还是让他们跑了。¤Unfortunately, Ju Yunqi and the Blood Sword Palace elder were indeed powerful, and I couldn't keep them. They still managed to escape.
而且，他做了这么多年风雨楼大长老，对风雨楼暗杀之术非常熟悉。若是躲起来的话，想找到他就已十分困难。¤Furthermore, he has been serving as the Fengyu Manor Supreme Elder for so many years, and is very familiar with the assassination techniques of the Storm Manor. If he were to go into hiding, it would be very difficult to find him.
你进入望风殿，发现公孙季已经在这里等你了。¤You enter the Keeping Watch Company and find Gongsun Ji already waiting for you here.
大长老...此人莫非便是琚运琦？¤Could this grand elder possibly be Ju Yunqi?
你向他行礼，不料此人却像完全没看见一样，从你身旁走过。你只觉得他行事作风干练，不怒自威气势逼人，应当实力不俗。¤You bowed to him, but unexpectedly he walked past you as though he hadn't seen you at all. You only felt that he carried himself in a capable manner, exuding a commanding air even when not angry. He must possess formidable strength.
不仅如此。¤Not only that.
{$daihao}，这次请你来是因为琚运琦之事已经有了新的进展。¤{$daihao}, I have called you here because there have been new developments regarding Ju Yunqi's matter.
望风殿前，一名身材高大的黑袍男子似乎正在交代着什么，令你意外的是，他并没有佩戴风雨楼的面具，这也让你得以注意到他的样貌。¤In front of the Keeping Watch Company, a tall and sturdy man dressed in black robes seemed to be explaining something. Surprisingly, he was not wearing the Storm Manor's mask, which allowed you to take notice of his appearance.
琚运琦的赏金不低，你若是感兴趣的话倒是不妨试试。¤The bounty for Ju Yunqi isn't low, so if you're interested, it wouldn't hurt to give it a try.
当你再次醒来时，发现自己已经回到了幽谷竹林之中。你的手边传来阵阵凉意，只见一堆颜色各异的果子被放在你的手边。¤When you wake up again, you find yourself back in the bamboo forest of the secluded valley. There is a chill in the air around you, and a pile of variously colored fruits lies beside your hand.
咚！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Dong! {vpunch=10,0.5}
你一路追着灰猴跑进了幽谷，但灰猴身姿轻盈，在林间穿梭，把你戏弄一番后，消失在了竹林深处。¤You chased after the grey monkey and ran into the secluded valley. However, the agile monkey darted through the forest, teasing you before disappearing into the depths of the bamboo grove.
你的脑门一痛，好像被什么东西砸了一下，回头一看，只见一只灰猴正冲你做着鬼脸。¤Your forehead hurts as if something just hit it. You turn around and see a gray monkey making a face at you.
你一路追着灰猴跑进了幽谷，灰猴身姿轻盈，在林间穿梭，你运起遁术，紧追不舍。¤You chased the gray monkey into the valley, where it moved nimbly through the forest. You used your mobility technique to pursue it without letting go.
吱吱吱吱¤Squeak squeak squeak squeak.
是那只灰猴放在你身边的么？你扭头四处张望，但灰猴早已不见了踪影。¤Is that gray monkey placed next to you? You turned your head and looked around, but the gray monkey had already disappeared without a trace.
眼看就要追上灰猴，突然，一股恶心欲吐的感觉从体内泛起，你止住身形，朝四周望去，只见眼前有一寒潭，灰猴正跌落在潭边，面露痛苦之色，似乎在向你求救。¤As you were about to catch up to the grey monkey, suddenly, a nauseating feeling arose from within your body. You stopped in your tracks and looked around, only to see a cold pool in front of you. The grey monkey had fallen by the edge of the pool, showing a painful expression and seemingly begging for your help.
好你个畜生...有种你下来！¤Okay, you animal...if you have the guts, come down!
无知畜生，犯不着和它计较。¤Ignorant beasts, not worth bothering with.
你强忍住不适，将小猴抱离寒潭，随后你也头痛欲裂，昏睡过去。¤You endure the discomfort and take the little monkey away from the cold pool. Afterwards, you also have a splitting headache and faint.
此地魔气肆溢，必有古怪，不可久留。¤The earth demon's magic qi is overflowing here, there must be something strange, we cannot stay for long.
灰猴朝你放声大笑，随后转身一跃，逃进了幽谷深处。¤The grey monkey laughed loudly at you and then turned around and leaped into the depths of the valley.
这不会是当年我和倪兄在这里砍断的那条根须吧...¤Could it be that this is the root whisker that my brother Ni and I cut off here back then...
一条看上去已经枯死很久的干瘪根须横亘于此。¤A withered root whisker lies horizontally here, appearing to have been dead for a long time.
就算只是元婴期妖兽的骸骨，其上灵力也可存留数百年，何况是这神树的根须。¤Even if it's just the skeleton of a nascent soul spirit beast, its spiritual energy can still persist for hundreds of years, let alone the root whiskers of this god tree.
奇怪。¤Strange.
难道是...被它自己吸干的？¤Could it be... sucked dry by itself?
说着，你一个火球术砸向了颜老怪的洞府。¤Speaking, you cast a Fireball spell towards Geezer Yan's cave.
颜老怪所用的功法太过阴毒，若是传出去，恐怕又有不知多少无辜百姓为此丧命。¤The technique used by Geezer Yan is too sinister. If it were to be leaked, I am afraid that countless innocent people would lose their lives because of it.
不如先四处云游，广交好友。八千里路云和月，等都见识过再来定论，也未尝不可。¤Why not travel around and make friends first? Once we've seen the clouds and moon over the eight-thousand-mile journey, we can come to a conclusion. It's not a bad idea.
你大概能体会到杜老二的处境与心情了，但又该如何劝说他为好？你陷入了思考。¤You can probably understand the situation and feelings of Old Du, but how to persuade him to do the right thing? You are lost in thought.
事毕。再回禾山派，此地已是一片狼藉。除了坐在废墟上的杜老二，再无半个身影。¤After finishing up, upon returning to the Mt. Harvest Sect, the place had already become a ruin. Other than Old Du sitting on the ruins, there was no other figure in sight.
他摆弄了一番角落里的鬼像，石墙上便赫然出现了一个暗格。¤He tinkered with the ghost figurine in the corner, and a hidden compartment suddenly appeared on the stone wall.
这是什么意思？¤What does this mean?
颜老怪我已经除掉了。¤I have eliminated Yan, the old freak.
…莫非杜兄守候在此便是为了此事？¤Could it be that Brother Du is waiting here precisely for this matter?
我只当是禾山派那群劳什子玩意又回来了，害我白激动一场…¤I just thought it was the group of trash from Harvest Mountain faction coming back, making me in vain excited...
他死后，我就来这搜寻过一次，不过没找到什么东西，我估摸着可能我神识太低了，所以才没感应到。¤After he died, I searched here once, but didn't find anything. I guess my soul sense was too low, so I didn't sense anything.
杜兄？你怎么会在这里？¤Brother Du? How did you end up here?
现在倒好，禾山派散了，我上哪找他们去？¤Now it's not good, Mt. Harvest Sect has disbanded, where do I go to find them?
就算没有，也总比毫无章法地复仇要好。¤Even if there's none, it's still better than seeking revenge without any plan or organization.
他低头沉思了许久，但好像也没有思考出什么结论。¤He lowered his head and pondered for a long time, but it seemed that he had not come up with any conclusions. 
见到此景，你不禁心生疑惑。¤Seeing this scenery, you can't help but feel doubtful.
杜老二低头沉思了片刻。¤Old Du bowed his head and pondered for a moment.
九州大陆，无尽之海，到处都潜藏着各种机缘变故，若不游历一番，眼界未免也太小了点。¤The Nine Provinces Continent, the Endless Sea, is where various opportunities and changes lie hidden everywhere. If one does not travel and explore, their perspective would be too narrow.
原来是麻兄…我只是碰巧路过此地。禾山派既已然覆灭，麻兄何故来此？¤So it's Brother Ma... I just happened to pass by this place. Since Mt. Harvest Sect has already been destroyed, why did Brother Ma come here? Note
怎的，你不走难道是想等我走了独吞宝物？¤What do you mean? Are you not leaving because you want to wait for me to leave so you can take the treasure all for yourself?
杜老二？莫要以为结丹了我们就怕你，等首领从山谷回来，便有你好果子吃。¤Old Du? Don't think that we're afraid of you just because you've achieved the core formation stage. When the leader comes back from the valley, you'll get what's coming to you.
那，难道这仇就这么算了？¤That, so I suppose this grudge will just be written off like this?
可是，不去复仇的话，我又该去哪？¤However, if I don't seek revenge, where should I go?
以后你就跟着我办事儿吧。\n¤From now on, you'll follow me and do things with me.
不然，就算财侣法地皆圆满，身死道消之后也只能化作尘埃。¤Otherwise, even if the Wealth Partner Method is perfect, after death, it can only turn into dust.
颜老怪？此事从何说起？¤Geezer Yan? Where did this start from?
游历？¤Travel?
总之，今天还是多亏了{FirstName}{xiongdi}。¤In short, today was thanks to {FirstName}{xiongdi}.
杜兄当真不考虑放下仇恨，去寻觅长生之道？¤Do you really not consider letting go of your hatred and seeking the path to eternal life, Brother Du?
但是我从来没有想过要长生，我修炼，就只是为了报仇。¤However, I have never thought of seeking eternal life. I cultivate only for the sake of revenge.
这沂山派和禾山道势同水火，我还是不要一个人来这里瞎转悠比较好...¤I'd better not wander around here alone since the Mt. Yi Sect and Mt. Harvest Sect are hostile towards each other like fire and water... okay.
我不想知道颜老怪藏了什么，我是认真的。¤I don't want to know what Geezer Yan is hiding, I'm serious.
听到此言，杜老二的脸色微沉。¤Upon hearing these words, Old Du's face darkened slightly.
要是在从前，沂山派还没覆灭那会儿，有一群心直口快的朋友一起吹水打牙，一同追寻那长生之道，或许还能有趣一些。¤If in the past, when the Mt. Yi Sect had not yet been destroyed, there was a group of straightforward friends who chatted and pursued the path of eternal life, it might have been more interesting.
你除掉颜老怪便是为了天下苍生着想，此时究竟要不要阻止麻老九？你犹豫了起来。¤You hesitated should you stop Old Ma at this time, considering that you eliminated Geezer Yan for the sake of the world?
刚好结丹之后缺一本合适的主修功法，借这个机会，我一定要搞到一本天阶功法！¤After just reaching the core formation stage, I happen to be lacking a suitable primary cultivation technique. Taking this opportunity, I must obtain a heavenly-ranked skill!
你亦然没有经历过这种事，一时竟也说不出话来。¤You have never experienced this kind of thing, so you can't say anything for a moment.
不然呢？我拼死修炼，就是为了能找他们报仇。¤Otherwise, why would I strive to cultivate myself to the point of sacrificing my life, if not to seek revenge against them?
多捞点好处，早点突破才是正事。¤Get more benefits by putting in more effort, breaking through earlier is the real task.
金丹期修士，就算是放在五大派中也是凤毛麟角般的存在，而在禾山道这种小地方，却一下就出现了两个。¤Golden Core cultivator; even among the Five Great Sects, they are rare and exceptional. Yet in a small place like Mt. Harvest Sect, two have suddenly appeared.
麻老九为了制止你进一步破坏洞府，运起功法便向你攻来。¤In order to stop you from further damaging the cave, Old Ma Nine uses his technique to attack you.
唉，看来在禾山派守着也没用，我还是想想别的办法吧…¤Sigh, it seems pointless to stay guarding at Mt. Harvest Sect. I should think of another way.
算了，我再想想吧…¤Nevermind, I'll think about it again…
颜老怪明明已经身死，禾山派已经覆灭，可你仍能感应到此地有金丹修士的气息，这让你提起了警惕。¤Geezer Yan has clearly already died, Mt. Harvest Sect has already been destroyed, yet you can still sense the aura of a cultivator with golden core here, which makes you raise your guard.
过去的事已经回想过太多，现在大仇得报，倒也没啥了。¤The past has already been thought about too much. Now that the great revenge has been taken, there's nothing more to it.
以前我考虑的东西确实太少了，还是得先到处看看才好。¤Before, I truly considered too little, so it's better to go and see things first.
且慢……¤Wait a moment...
猖狂。要是我没记错的话，当年杜家村的事就有你一份吧？¤Rampant. If I remember correctly, you had a part in the incident at Du Family Village back then, right?
金丹之后，我正愁没有一本像样的功法给我修炼，借这个机会，我一定要找到一本天阶功法！¤After achieving the Golden Core stage, I was worried about not having a decent technique to cultivate. With this opportunity, I must find a Heavenly-ranked skill!
此处便交给你了，我去会会那颜老怪。¤I will leave this to you then, I'm going to meet with that Geezer Yan.
言罢，麻老九便自顾自地展开神识，一分一毫地仔细搜寻颜老怪的洞府，生怕漏掉了什么隐蔽的机关暗道。¤With that, Old Ma Nine immediately opened his soul sense and meticulously searched Geezer Yan's cave, afraid of missing any hidden mechanisms or secret passages.
你不懂…虽然禾山派散了，但是我心里的恨意却一点都没散。¤You don't understand... Although Mt. Harvest Sect has disbanded, my resentment towards them hasn't faded at all.
麻老九阴沉着脸，对峙了片刻，随即又笑了出来。¤Old Ma Nine  had a gloomy face as he confronted them for a moment, but then suddenly burst into laughter.
但现在我孤身一人，实在是无趣的紧…¤But now I'm alone, it's really boring...
你收敛气息，一步步向那气息靠近那人。忽然，那人破门而出，向你袭来。¤You restrain your breath and step closer to the person with that breath. Suddenly, the person bursts out of the door and attacks you.
他随即放出一阵威压，前一秒还嚣张跋扈的禾山派修士，下一秒便吓得脸色惨白，哆嗦不止。¤He immediately released a burst of suppression, causing the previously arrogant and domineering cultivators of the Mt. Harvest sect to turn pale and tremble uncontrollably.
我也理不清…¤I also can't figure it out...
你说得对。¤You are right.
那些普通人充其量也就能活一百年，反正最后都会死，你帮他们干嘛？¤Those normal people can live for at most a hundred years, and they will all die anyway. Why bother helping them?
况且以我这种资质，能结丹就已经是万幸了，长生对我来说太难了。¤Moreover, with my aptitude, it would already be fortunate if I can successfully form my core, eternal life is too difficult for me.
杜老二语气极其愤慨。你原本还想告诉他自己除掉颜老怪的事，现在却硬生生地噎了回去。¤Old Du was extremely indignant. You had originally wanted to tell him about how you got rid of Geezer Yan, but now you forcefully choked back your words.
也不知道是哪路高手把他做了，倒也给我出了一口恶气，桀桀桀！¤I also don't know which expert did it to him, but it made me feel relieved and laugh out loud!
几名筑基期修士见此情形，也纷纷畏缩不前。只有一名筑基巅峰修士壮起胆子叫嚣了起来。¤Several foundation establishment cultivators saw this situation and hesitated to move forward. Only one foundation establishment peak cultivator gathered the courage to shout out.
言毕，杜老二转身便要离去。¤Upon finishing speaking, Old Du turned around and was about to leave.
杜兄不如干脆四处游历一番，转换一下心境，说不定便有了新的目标，复仇这件事便会慢慢淡化。¤Brother Du, why not take a trip around and change your mental state? Perhaps you will find a new target and gradually let go of revenge.
守门的炼气期修士哪里见过这阵仗？扭头就往里跑。几名筑基期修士见此情形，也纷纷畏缩不前。¤A qi refining cultivator guarding the gate had never before seen such a scene and turned to run inside. Several foundation establishment cultivators also hesitated to move forward in the face of this situation.
道别后，你便不再多想，转身离开了。¤After bidding farewell, you no longer thought much, and turned around to leave.
麻老九迅速将功法书与大半藏品收入囊中，并将剩下的东西递给了你。¤Old Ma quickly put the technique books and most of the collections into his bag, and handed the rest of the things to you.
我把当年那些人一个个都杀干净的时候，确实是开心的不得了。¤When I killed all those people from back then one by one, I was really happy.
那些人资质平平，说不定没筑基成功便已身死道消。但杜兄乃是金丹修为，何必为他们放弃大好前程？¤Those people have average aptitude. Who knows, they might die before successfully building a foundation. But Brother Du has the cultivation of a golden core. Why should he give up a promising future for them?
他一副落寞的样子，丝毫没有想象中大仇得报之后的喜悦。¤He had a desolate appearance, without the slightest joy of getting revenge as imagined.
你二人又聊到了对旅途的向往与感慨，不觉间已到了该离别的时候。¤You two talked again about your yearning and emotions towards the journey, and before you knew it, it was time to say goodbye.
杜兄…可是想到了什么伤心事？¤Brother Du... have you thought of something that makes you sad?
这么说的话，杜兄不如将这些问题都抛诸脑后，外出游历一番，如何？¤If that's the case, why not put these questions aside, Brother Du, and travel outside for a while instead?
桀桀桀，既然{FirstName}{xiongdi}不高兴，那就依你的意思吧。¤Hehehe, since {FirstName} {xiongdi} is unhappy, then I will go along with your wishes.
桀桀桀，{xiongdi}莫要说笑了，难道你不想知道颜老怪到底藏了多少宝贝？大不了到时候多分你一些便是。¤Kekeke, {xiongdi}, don't joke around. Don't you want to know how many treasures Geezer Yan has hidden? It's alright, I'll give you a larger share when the time comes.
自然不是。¤Naturally not.
啧啧，本来想看个热闹，没想到把自己给搭进去了。现在你想怎么办？¤Hmm, I originally wanted to watch the excitement, but I didn't expect to be caught up in it. What do you want to do now?
像无头苍蝇一样找他们也不是个办法，还是先到处逛逛，换换心情好了。¤Looking for them like headless flies is not a solution. It's better to wander around and change your mood first.
若是碰巧遇见了，杜兄大可以出手，不过若是没有遇见，杜兄也没有必要在他们身上浪费时间。¤If you happen to encounter them, Brother Du can take action, but if you haven’t encountered them, Brother Du doesn’t need to waste time on them.
走了约莫十丈远，麻老九停下了脚步。¤After walking about ten zhang, Old Ma Nine stopped his footsteps.
麻老九狐疑地看了你一眼。¤The old ma  looked at you suspiciously  with one eye.
不然，登入仙门者能修至筑基者已不足半数，修至金丹更是十不足一。¤Otherwise, less than half of those who enter the immortal sect can cultivate to the foundation building stage, and less than one in ten thousand can cultivate to the golden core stage.
你不知道，这厮借口说我们只有筑基修为，一直卡脖子，不给我们修炼高阶功法。¤You don't know, this guy is using the excuse that we only have foundation building cultivation, and keeps holding us back, not allowing us to cultivate higher level ranked skills.
是嘛？谢了…¤What is it? Thanks...
桀桀桀！有了！¤Kekeke! Got it!
罢了，{xiongdi}你也不是外人。我来这跟禾山派没啥关系，跟颜老怪倒是关系很大。¤Alright, {xiongdi}, you are not an outsider. My coming here has nothing to do with Mt. Harvest Sect, but it has a lot to do with Geezer Yan.
我早就说过，跟着大哥混，少不了你的好处，桀桀桀！¤I have long said that following my elder brother will bring you benefits, hehehe!
相互告别后，你们便踏上了新的旅程。¤After bidding farewell to each other, you set out on a new journey.
一定，再会。¤Certainly, goodbye.
都金丹了，你怎么还这么天真？¤Even though you have achieved Golden Core, why are you still so naive?
虽说这些东西是我找到的，但毕竟见者有份，这些就归你了。¤Although these things were found by me, after all, seeing is sharing, so these belong to you.
见此情形你便知道，此处少不了一场腥风血雨。¤Upon seeing this situation, you will know that there will be a bloody storm here.
我虽然也恨颜老怪，是他把这些狗屁功法带到禾山来，才有的后来这么多事。¤Although I also hate Geezer Yan, it was because he brought these useless techniques to Mount Harvest that all these events happened afterwards.
短暂的惊愕后，你隐约觉得杜老二的神情有些失落。¤After a brief shock, you vaguely sense that Old Du's expression is somewhat disappointed.
好家伙，是说以前搜罗的灵石都被他拿去干嘛了，原来都藏在这了！¤Wow, so what did he do with all the spirit stones he collected before? They were all hidden here!
（这个麻老九看起来在禾山道里有些地位，反正来都来了，正好想想办法从他嘴里套出点消息。）¤(This old ma seems to have some status in the Mt. Harvest Sect. Since we've already come, let's try to get some information out of him.)
你这次干的不错，这是大首领给你的赏赐。\n¤Your performance this time was good, and this is the reward given to you by the Great Leader.
只见暗格中藏着大批灵石丹药，深处还藏有几本功法书。¤I saw a large number of spirit stones and pills hidden in the secret compartment, and a few technique books were also hidden in the depths.
你走吧，就当今天什么都没找到，我不想与你动手。¤You go, consider today as finding nothing, I don't want to fight with you.
约莫半个时辰过后，麻老九终于有了发现。¤Roughly half an hour later, Lao Jiu finally made a discovery.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}？怎么会是你？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}? How could it be you?
杜老二摇了摇头。¤Du Laor Er shook his head.
谢了。¤Thanks.
你能结丹，已经属于资质机缘上佳，若不追寻长生之道，岂不是白白糟蹋了这身修为？¤You have the aptitude to form a core, which is already considered a good opportunity for cultivation. If you do not pursue the path of eternal life, wouldn't it be a waste of your cultivation?
不管怎么说，只有求得长生之道，其他的事情才有价值。¤No matter what, the only valuable thing is to seek the path of eternal life.
你刚准备应敌，却发现竟是熟识之人。¤You just prepared to face the enemy, only to discover that it is actually someone you know.
你说的对。¤You're right.
只可惜颜老怪不知道被谁杀了，禾山派也散了，不然我非要亲手杀了他们不可。¤Unfortunately, Geezer Yan doesn't know who killed him, and Mt. Harvest Sect has also disbanded. Otherwise, I would have to kill them with my own hands.
可开心过后，又觉得心里空荡荡的。¤After being happy, I feel empty inside again.
那你这是…？¤So, what is this that you...?
但只有把那天我看见的人一个个亲手除掉，我才觉得痛快。¤But only by personally getting rid of every person I saw that day, did I truly feel satisfied.
那我便预祝杜兄旅途顺利了！¤Then I wish Brother Du a smooth journey!
但长生之道这种东西也太虚无缥缈了，就算真的长生了，也不见得有什么有趣的东西。¤But the way of eternal life is too virtual and elusive. Even if one truly achieves eternal life, it may not necessarily bring anything interesting.
那便预祝杜兄旅途顺利了！¤That's to wish Brother Du a smooth journey!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}？你怎么在这？¤{FirstName}, brother? Why are you here?
可现在杀光了，之后再去干嘛呢？我从来都没有想过…¤Now that they can all be killed, what else do we have to do afterwards? I have never thought about it...
杜老二停下了脚步，回头看向你。¤Du Lao Er stopped his steps, turned his head to look at you.
话虽如此，我还是无法容忍这种滥杀无辜的行为。¤Although that may be the case, I still cannot tolerate such wanton killing of the innocent.
你只站在那，并未上前阻止。¤You just stood there without moving forward to stop.
从前我修炼的目标非常明确，所以才有强烈的动力。¤In the past, my cultivation goal was very clear, so I had strong motivation.
杜兄此前一直在禾山、沂山一带活动，最远不过也在宁州之内吧？¤Brother Du has always been active in the area around Mt. Harvest, Mt. Yi, with the farthest being within Ningzhou, right?
你他娘来真的啊？¤Are you really coming, damn it?
…既然禾山派已然覆灭，何必赶尽杀绝呢？¤Since Mt. Harvest Sect has already been destroyed, why bother with exterminating them completely?
好了，我要先回去琢磨这新功法了，下次有好东西可别忘记大哥我！¤Okay, I need to go back and study this new technique. Don't forget about your big brother next time if you have something good!
虽然是这么个道理，但我总觉得哪里不对…¤Although it is this principle, I always feel that something is not right...
禾山派已不复存在。告别后，你们便踏上了新的旅程。¤The He Mountain Sect no longer exists. After bidding farewell, you embark on a new journey.
说着，你便运起了功法。麻老九也停止了探查，转身看向你，气氛顿时紧张了起来。¤As you spoke, you activated your technique. Old Ma also stopped probing and turned to look at you, and the atmosphere became tense all of a sudden.
面对麻老九的这个问题，你一时想不出如何回应。¤Facing the question from Old Ma Nine, you cannot come up with an answer for the moment.
收手吧，麻兄。¤Stop it, Ma Xiong.
言罢，麻老九便径直走了出去，但你却留在洞府门口一动不动。¤After speaking, Old Ma directly walked out, but you remained motionless at the entrance of the cave.
现在我结丹了，就想着再来找找看…事先说好，别的东西也就算了，要是找到了后续功法，你可不准跟我抢！\t¤Now that I have formed my core, I want to come and take a look again... Let me make it clear beforehand, I don't care about anything else, but if I find any follow-up techniques, you are not allowed to compete with me for it!
之前我拼命修炼，只是想有一天能把他们都杀光。¤Before, I was cultivating desperately, just hoping to one day be able to kill them all.
大恩不言谢，我们后会有期！¤Great kindness needs no words of gratitude, we will meet again in the future!
他又沉思了片刻。¤He thought for a moment again.
……我倒是没有这种疑问，若要我说，修行本就不是为了复仇，而是为了追求长生之道。¤I don't have such a question. If you ask me, cultivating is not for revenge, but to pursue the path of eternal life.
看着麻老九的背影，你转念一想——若是麻老九找到了那些所谓的后续功法，他会成为第二个颜老怪继续祸害苍生吗？¤Looking at the back of Old Ma Nine, you suddenly think if Old Ma Nine were to find the so-called follow-up techniques, would he become the second Geezer Yan and continue to harm the people?
空荡荡的？¤Empty?
听说这禾山道的修士都喜欢用人的魂魄来祭炼法器，我还是别在这里逗留了...¤I heard that cultivators of Mt. Harvest Sect like to use human souls to refine magic tools. It's best for me not to stay here...
后会有期。¤See you again in the future.
（不过这里毕竟是沂山派的主场，想必也留有一些后手。现在还只是一群炼气修为的弟子在小打小闹，也不知会不会有筑基期的高手参战。）¤(However, this is the main venue of Mt. Yi Sect after all, so there must be some backup plan in place. Currently, only a group of disciples at the Qi Refining stage are fighting each other, and it's unclear if there will be any experts at the Foundation Establishment stage joining in.)
这段时间大哥和二哥不在门内，你要是有什么事，就直接来找我吧。¤During this time period, Big Brother and Second Brother are not in the gate. If you have any matter, just come and find me directly.
你这{xiaozi}，是哪一边的？¤What side are you on, {xiaozi}?
我...我是禾山道的！¤I...I am from the Mt. Harvest Sect!
情急之下，你脱口而出....¤In a moment of urgency, you blurted out...
小{xiongdi}，咱们一起上，给他点教训！¤Little brother, let's go together and teach him a lesson!
（这个杜老二看起来在沂山派里有些地位，反正来都来了，正好想想办法从他嘴里套出点消息。）¤(This Old Du seems to hold some position in the Mt. Yi Sect. Anyway, since we've already come, it's a good opportunity to try and get some information out of him.)
桀桀桀桀，不过是个新入门的{xiaozi}罢了，你还当真找到了什么帮手？¤Hehehe, it's just a newbie {xiaozi}, nothing more. Did you really think you found some help?
哈哈哈，小{xiongdi}，今天多谢你出手相助，以后你就算我们沂山派的人了。¤Hahaha, little brother, thank you for your help today. From now on, you are considered one of us from Mt. Yi Sect.
他奶奶的，你们两个就是一起上，我又何惧。¤Damn it, the two of you come at me together, what have I to fear?
嘿，我们倒是没在门派内见过，你这{xiaozi}是新来的吧？¤Hey, we haven't seen you in the sect before. You're a newcomer, {xiaozi}?
你还没走近沂山派的山寨，兵器法术相交之声便已传来，远远望去，只见数十个沂山派与禾山道的修士们已经战作一团，打的不可开交。¤You have not yet approached the stronghold of Mt. Yi Sect, but the sounds of clashes of weapons and spells have already reached your ears. From a distance, you can see dozens of cultivators from Mt. Yi and Mt. Harvest Sect engaged in a fierce battle.
我...我是沂山派的！¤I... I am from Mt. Yi Sect!
他奶奶的，这里怎么还藏了一个，你莫不是故意引我来这里？¤His grandmother, how come there's one hidden here as well? Are you deliberately leading me here?
（这禾山道的修士，一出手便是各种血祭搜魂的邪道法门，同阶的修士还真不是他们的对手。）¤(The cultivators of the Mt. Harvest Sect have various evil techniques such as blood sacrifices and soul searching, which make them unbeatable by same-level cultivators.)
那禾山道的修士挥舞手中的巨幡，一层血色的护罩轻易便将他面前的火弹挡住。你却避无可避，其中一颗火弹“轰”的一声砸在树干上，整棵树都烧了起来。¤The cultivator of Mt. Harvest Sect waved a huge banner in his hand as a blood-red shield of level 1 easily blocked the fire bomb in front of him. However, you couldn't dodge it, and one of the fire bombs hit a tree trunk with a boom sound, causing the entire tree to catch fire.
沂山派的修士可都不是什么善茬...我还是赶紧离开，别被他们发现了...¤The cultivators of Mt. Yi Sect are not all good people... I better leave quickly, and not let them discover me...
桀桀桀桀，我也不管你是真是假，只要你这回立了功，回去我自当禀报寨主，少不了你的好处。¤Jiejiejie, I don't care if you're true or false. As long as you make a contribution this time, I will report it to the village chief when I go back and you will definitely benefit.
我...我只是路过的¤I...I'm just passing by.
你正看着热闹，没想到混战之中，有两名修士竟一路追打到了附近。只见那沂山派的修士连捏法决，凭空聚起数个火弹向你这里飞来。¤You were watching the lively scene when unexpectedly, in the midst of the melee, two cultivators chased each other nearby. Suddenly, the cultivator from the Mt. Yi Sect gathered several fire bombs with a hand seal and sent them flying towards you.
（沂山派和禾山道可都不是什么善茬，我还是别淌这趟混水了。）¤(The Mt. Yi Sect and the Mt. Harvest Dao are not good people to mess with, so I better not get involved with them.)
沂山派和禾山道的人果然打起来了...也不知道是什么宝物能让他们这样兴师动众。¤The people of Mt. Yi Sect and Mt. Harvest Sect have indeed started fighting... I don't know what precious treasure could make them raise an army like this.
你找到一棵大树，捏了一个敛气的法决，纵身一跃，便躲在树上看起戏来。¤You found a big tree, used a restraining Qi technique, leaped up and hid on the tree to watch the show.
这浑水可不好趟，你可得考虑清楚咯。¤This murky water is not easy to wade through, you must consider it carefully.
他奶奶的，这儿是你该来的地方么，赶紧给老子滚蛋，不然连你一块儿收拾。¤Damn it, is this the place where you should be? Get the hell out of here quickly, or else you'll be dealt with along with everyone else.
你只能纵身从树上跳下，那两名修士显然没有料到这里会突然蹦出个人来，停止了争斗，一齐看向你。¤You can only jump down from the tree, the two cultivators clearly did not expect someone to suddenly jump out here, they stopped fighting and looked at you together.
“你真的确定这东西有市场吗......”¤Are you really sure this thing has a market....
这小的就不知道了。¤I don't know about this little one.
这位仙师来得正好！你说甜丹药好还是咸丹药好？¤This immortal master arrived at the perfect time! Do you prefer sweet pills or salty pills?
若说什么地方能寻得这天蝉灵叶，大抵也只有那仙山了。¤If one were to seek the Skyscada Leaf, it is likely that they would only find it on that Immortal Mountain.
打听天蝉灵叶的可是倪家之人？¤Is it someone from the Ni family asking about the availability of Skyscada Leaves?
新品丹药就应该做甜的！¤New medicinal pills should be sweet! 
谢过仙师帮忙，这颗试作品就送给你，届时出了新丹，还请仙师一定多多捧场！¤Thank you for the help, Immortal Master. This trial work is a gift for you. When I create new pills, I hope Immortal Master will support me a lot!
“有消息就是好事，倪府神通广大，说不定能够打听到那岱舆山的消息。我还是先回倪府，把这件事说给倪兄吧。”¤There's good news if there's information. Ni's Manor has vast divine skills, perhaps they can inquire about the news of Daiyu Mountain. I'll go back to Ni's Manor first and tell Ni brother about this matter.
仙长真是消息灵通，不过这天蝉灵叶素来难求，我们也毫无头绪。¤The immortal leader is truly well-informed, but the Skyscada Leaf has always been hard to come by and we are also completely clueless.
不知这仙山方位几何？¤I don't know the position and geometry of this fairy mountain.
听见没有！甜的甜的就是甜的！甜才是天下第一！¤Did you hear that? Sweet is sweet! Sweetness is the best in the world!
这......¤This...
“丹药还分甜味咸味，这灵药堂小厮当真奇思妙想......”¤The pills are also divided into sweet and salty flavors, this servant from Spirit Herb Hall is truly ingenious...
离得老远你就听见二人的争执，看样子是为新研发的丹方而争吵。¤From far away, you can hear the argument between the two people. It seems they are arguing about the newly researched recipe for elixirs.
你胡说！明明咸味更合适！¤You're talking nonsense! Clearly savory flavor is more suitable!
听见没有！只有咸味才人见人爱一统众口！¤Listen carefully! Only the salty flavor can unite everyone and become universally loved.
仙长，何事？¤Immortal senior, what's the matter?
奔波了几日才得一点缥缈的消息，传闻海上有处岱舆山，山中药谷灵气充盈，百草丰茂。¤After several days of rushing around, only a little vague news was obtained. It was rumored that there was a beautiful Daiyu Mountain by the sea, where the spiritual energy was abundant in the medicinal valley and hundreds of herbs grew luxuriantly.
奇也怪也，近几日打听这稀奇灵药的突然多了起来，往日知晓这奇药的人都没几个。¤Strange and strange, in recent days, there have been suddenly many inquiries about this rare spiritual medicine, and there were only a few people who knew about this strange medicine in the past.
逸风府人去楼空，驻守在门前的护卫也都不知所踪。¤The people of Yifeng Manor have all gone, and the guards stationed at the gate are also nowhere to be found.
这逸风府里都是宁王的人，我还是不要再去了...¤The Yifeng Manor is full of Ning King's people, so I better not go there again.
还是先去{color=#d0380a}宁王府{/color}看看吧...¤Let's go to the Ning King's Manor first and take a look…
此地无人经营，擂台已积了厚厚的灰。¤This land has been left unattended and the arena is now covered in a thick layer of ash.
现下斗法台并无比试，街上空荡荡的。¤At present, there is no competition on the dueling terrace, and the streets are empty.
这里好似被人翻修过，焕然一新的擂台上几名修士正在斗法比试。¤Here, seemingly someone has repaired and renovated the arena, and several cultivators are currently competing in a magic battle.
抱歉仙长，此乃宁王居所，闲杂人等不得入内¤I am sorry, Immortal Elder. This is the residence of Ning King. Outsiders are not allowed to enter.
原本富丽堂皇的宁王府不知为何衰败起来，朱红的大门贴满了封条。从已经破旧不堪的纸张看来，这府邸似乎被封已久。¤Originally magnificent Ning King's Manor for some reason became dilapidated, with scarlet doors covered in seals. From the worn out paper, it seems that this mansion has been sealed for a long time.
这宁王府并不简单，我还是不要再回去了...¤This Ning King's Manor is not easy. I better not go back there again.
此乃宁王居所，闲杂人等不得入内。¤This is the residence of the Ning King. Outsiders are not allowed to enter.
宁王府内可能藏着魔修，该怎么做才能避免打草惊蛇呢...?{w}{w=0.5}¤What should be done to prevent disturbing the enemy while searching for demon cultivators hidden inside the Ning King's Manor...? {w}{w=0.5}
你贵为王府供奉，自然可以随意出入王府不受限制，一路上所有见到你的婢女与管事都向你行礼。¤As a honored guest elder of the royal mansion, you are naturally free to come and go without any restriction, and all the maid girls and stewards who see you on the way bow to you. Note
你刚想入府，便被门口的门房拦了下来...¤As soon as you tried to enter the mansion, you were stopped by the doorman at the door.
你心神合一，探查着宁王府内的情况，一道略有熟悉的声音传入你的脑海。¤You focused your mind and explored the situation inside the Ning King's Manor when a slightly familiar voice entered your mind.
你心神合一，慢慢将神识探入王府。谁知还没等你听到什么动静，就觉得一阵剧痛，识海仿佛被另一股力量所刺穿！¤You merge your mind and soul sense together, slowly probing into the Wang household. Unexpectedly, before you can even hear any sound, you feel a sharp pain, as if another force has pierced through your sea of consciousness!
显然，王府内有其他的修士发现了你，你闷哼一身，顾不得太多，转身便狼狈的逃跑了...¤Obviously, other cultivators in the Wang family has discovered you. You grunt and don't think too much, turning around and running away awkwardly...
你未曾学习过敛息的法门，才刚一跳上墙头，就被宁王府内的人发现了，只能狼狈地扭头就跑...¤You have not learned the technique of restraining your breath. As soon as you jumped onto the wall, you were discovered by someone from the Ning King's Manor and could only turn your head and flee in a sorry state...
熟悉的男声：哼！都怪那人坏我好事，定要找个机会暗中将他除去！¤Hmph! It's all that person's fault for ruining my good plan. I must find an opportunity to secretly get rid of him!
这个声音......他就是那里在斗法台上与我比试的金大勇！¤This voice... he is Jin Dayong, the one who dueled with me on the Dueling Terrace!
你收敛起息悄悄潜入宁王府，一道略有熟悉的声音从你耳边传来。¤You quietly converge your breath and sneak into Ning King's Manor. A somewhat familiar voice comes to your ear.
本就为荣华富贵而来，却被他抢了风头害我不能专美于前，实在气煞我也！¤I came here solely for fame and fortune, but he stole the limelight and now I cannot shine in front of others. It really annoys me!
原来他还在为斗法台上的比试耿耿于怀...表面上恭维与我，暗地里却想置我于死地，着实令人不齿。¤Originally, he still held a grudge about the competition on the dueling terrace... He complimented me on the surface but secretly wanted to kill me, which is truly despicable.
不过看来他并不是魔修...这点倒是错怪他了。¤However, it seems that he is not a demonic cultivator...I was mistaken about that.
你正感慨此行恐怕空手而返时，神识敏锐地捕捉到一丝奇异的波动，隔壁房间里传来另一段令你好奇的对话。¤As you were lamenting that this trip might end in vain, your soul sense keenly detected a strange fluctuation and a curious conversation from the adjacent room.
不如去中草阁走上一番，看看有没有什么方便我行事的草药。到时候......¤It's better to go to the Chinese Herb Pavilion and take a look if there are any herbs that are convenient for my tasks. Later on...
哼，王府内不好动手，正等着你出宁王府呢！¤Hmph, it's not easy to strike within the manor. I'm just waiting for you to leave the Ning King's Manor!
我们在听雨阁相识的。¤We met at the Rain Pavilion.
我问，你答。¤I ask, you answer.
忽然四周黑雾四散而开，好像什么都没有发生一样。¤Suddenly, the black mist scattered around and dissipated as if nothing had happened.
他跟你说了什么？¤What did he say to you?
我在武陵城英杰会小胜一招，夺得魁首他邀请我来的。¤I won a small victory in the Young Hero's Tournament in Wuling City, and was invited by the champion to come here.
就是普通闲聊，没什么的。¤Just normal chitchat, nothing special.
你将你和公孙季相聚的场景，向他复述一遍。¤Repeat to him the scene where you met with Gongsun Ji.
...前辈，请讲。¤Senior, please speak.
（老头，你看出门道了吗？这来者不善啊。）¤(Old man, have you figured out the way out? The incoming person is malicious.)
公孙季（公孙道友，为求自保不要怪我啊。）¤Gongsun Ji (Fellow Daoist Gongsun, don't blame me for trying to protect myself.)
怎么认识的？¤How did you meet?
这是一道似男似女的声音，在四周响起，虚虚实实时有时无，你甚至不能分辨他的方向。¤This is a voice that seems both male and female, ringing out from all around, sometimes present and sometimes absent, such that you can't even discern its direction.
对方应该精通隐匿暗杀之道的金丹修士，不然纵使我仅剩一缕残魂，也断不可能没有一点察觉。¤The other party should be a golden core cultivator who is proficient in concealment and assassination techniques. Otherwise, even if I only have a remnant soul left, they would definitely not be unaware.
忽然四周黑雾弥漫，鬼哭狼嚎，你感受到一股近乎凝实的杀气锁定了你。¤Suddenly, black mist filled the surroundings, and ghost cries and wolf howls could be heard. You felt a nearly solid killing intent locking onto you.
刚刚进去见了谁？¤Who did you just see when you went in?
道友里边儿请——¤Please come inside, fellow Daoist.
公孙私宅不接待无邀请的宾客，阁下请回吧。¤Gongsun's private residence does not entertain uninvited guests. Please leave, sir.
少主已在观花榭等候多时，阁下沿着此路行至尽头便到了。¤The young master has been waiting at the flower-watching pavilion for a long time. If you follow this path to the end, you will arrive there.
小厮听了你的话面露笑意，有些轻快地回答你的疑问。¤The young male servant listened to your words, showed a smile on his face, and answered your question in a somewhat lively manner.
阁下不用担心迷路，府上也并不提防阁下行些不轨之事，至于原因您入府便知。¤You do not need to worry about getting lost, and the manor does not guard against any misconduct by you. As for the reason, you will understand once you enter the manor.
你不与我同去吗？¤Don't you go with me?
你以敛息术隐去神识波动后，寻得一处阵法薄弱的侧门，闪身而入。¤After using the breath control skill to hide the fluctuations of your soul sense, you found a weak side entrance to an array and swiftly entered.
等待时，你发现公孙府的守卫极少，估摸着是公孙家仗着阵法之能省了些人力。不如...¤During the wait, you notice that the security in Gongsun House is very little. It is estimated that the Gongsun family has saved some manpower by relying on the power of arrays. Why not...
这...前辈请稍等。¤Please wait a moment, senior.
听闻公孙家的极品盈手露甚是难得，想上门讨要一坛。¤I heard that the Gongsun family's top quality Ying Hand Dew is very rare, and I want to go ask for a barrel of it.
不知前辈来我公孙府何事？¤I don't know what brings the senior to my Gongsun House?
前辈请随我来，少主已在大殿等候。¤Senior, please follow me. The young master is already waiting in the main hall.
片刻后，刚才离开的修士急匆匆地赶回门口。¤A cultivator rushed back to the gate a moment later after leaving in a hurry just now.
还好，赶在前往通报的修士之前回到此处。¤Fortunately, we arrived back here before the cultivator who was supposed to report.
你找了个阵法薄弱的侧门准备潜入，却感觉一直有神识锁定着自己，只得悻悻地回到正门。¤You searched for a weak side entrance with an array, but felt your soul sense constantly locked onto yourself, so you could only return disappointed to the main entrance.
你隐去神识波动后，寻得一处阵法薄弱的侧门，闪身而入。¤After concealing the fluctuations of your soul sense, you found a weak spot in the array formation and swiftly entered.
前辈可是已完成对叛徒的追杀？¤Has the senior already completed the chase of the traitor?
你要找我也不必这样吧，现在可是全宁州都在传我们星宫出了叛徒。若想平息这波谣言可得费不少功夫。¤You don't need to look for me like this, now the whole Ningzhou is spreading rumors that there's a traitor in our Star Palace. If we want to quell this wave of rumors, it's going to take a lot of effort.
这符也太突然了，连句再见都没说上，也不知道倪兄顺利逃走了没有......¤This talisman also came too suddenly, without even saying goodbye, I don't know if Brother Ni was able to escape smoothly...
呵呵，这点阁下无需顾虑。在下的工作便是在交易会举办期间，带人前往秘市。¤Hehe, you don't need to worry about this. My job is to bring people to the secret market during the trading event.
或者，我只要把你挂在天星城头三个月，同时贴一条横幅，上书“我再也不敢造谣了”，说不定能省去不少麻烦嘻嘻。¤Alternatively, I can just hang you in Starsky City for three months and also display a banner that says I promise not to spread rumors again. This might save me from a lot of trouble, hehe. Note
眼下这天星城里就有一场秘市交易会要开始了，阁下若是信得过的话，在下可以作为你的推荐人，带你去参加这次的交易会。¤Currently, there is a secret market trade fair about to begin in Starsky City. If you trust me, I can act as your recommender and take you to participate in this trade fair.
面对这种情况，你作为始作俑者之一也只能暗自苦笑，希望在达到原来目标的同时不要太超出掌控。¤Faced with this situation, as one of the initiators, you can only smile bitterly in secret, hoping to achieve the original goal without exceeding control too much.
为什么找上我？¤Why choose me?
阁下可曾听说过秘市？¤Have you ever heard of the secret market, senior?
你听说了么，云汐城那边最近好像又有修习采补之术的邪修了。¤Have you heard? It seems that there are evil cultivators cultivating the technique of gathering and refining in Yun Shi City again recently.
嘿嘿，这次可不一样，听说原本就是个金丹后期的邪修，最近靠着采补秘术突破到了元婴期，你往后出城可要小心些。¤Hehe, this time is different. I heard that the evil cultivator was originally in the late Golden Core stage, but recently broke through to the Nascent Soul stage with the help of some secret arts. Be careful when leaving the city.
在下吴武凯，就住在这天星城坊市的附近，对这里很是熟悉。若是阁下想在这里买到些特殊的宝贝的话，在下也许可以帮得上忙。¤My name is Wu Wukai and I live near the marketplace in Starsky City. I am well-known around here and may be able to help you find some special treasures if you're interested.
啊，光顾着和{FirstName}{xiongdi}闲聊险些忘了正事，我们这便进入林府吧。¤Ah, I was so engrossed in chatting with {FirstName} and {xiongdi} that I nearly forgot about the main purpose. Let's enter Lin House now.
果然是星铃儿，而且不出所料的，她一开口满满的全是埋怨。¤星铃儿
倒也不是没有可能，毕竟对于修士来说年龄并不重要，只是与一个陷入瓶颈还寿元无多的长老结为道侣，不像是我所熟识的林家二小姐的作风。¤It is not impossible, after all age is not important for cultivators. However, to become Dao companions with an elder who is caught in a bottleneck and has a short lifespan, it is not the style of the Lin family's 2nd sister that I am familiar with.
当代宫主虽很少出面，但对林家也是照顾有加。所以丹阳子前辈在星宫中的地位可不一般。¤Current palace lord rarely appears, but takes great care of the Lin family. So, senior Dan Yang has a special status in the Star Palace.
咳，星道友稍安勿躁...变成这个局面我也是没想到...¤Ahem, Fellow Daoist Star, please calm down... I also didn't expect the situation to turn out like this...
这修士之间争斗也是常有发生，有争斗自然就会得到一些见不得光的，这些东西若是去坊市堂而皇之的售卖，难免会遇上一些麻烦，所以才有了这种隐蔽的交易形式。¤The fighting between cultivators is also common, and with fighting naturally comes some illicit things. If these things are sold openly in the marketplace, it is inevitable that there will be some trouble. That's why there is this hidden form of trade.
而且啊，我听说，这人可是从天星城...¤And, you know what, I heard that this person is from Starsky City...
你见星铃儿默认了，便领着她前往林府。¤You saw Star Bell nodding, so you led her towards Lin House.
这秘市之中的交易抽水很大，所以物价也比一般坊市要贵上不少。若是阁下在秘市中买了什么东西，我自然也能得到一笔不错的报酬。¤The trade in this secret market has a high commission, so prices are much higher than in the regular marketplace. If you were to buy something in the secret market, I would naturally receive a good reward.
这秘市的存在可能很多人都知道，但想要参加又是另外一回事了。毕竟秘市里交易的东西虽然都是外面难得一见的精品，但大多来路有些问题，所以这交易的时间和场所也时常变化。¤The existence of this secret market may be known by many people, but actually participating is another matter. After all, although the things traded in the secret market are all rare and valuable items that are hard to come by outside, most of them have some problems with their origins, so the time and location of these trades often change.
这有什么奇怪的，虽然没见过高境界的这类邪修，但一直是野火烧不尽。也不知他们功法哪来的。¤What's so strange about this? Even though I've never seen this kind of demonic cultivation at a high level, it has always been like an unstoppable wildfire. I wonder where they obtained their cultivation techniques.
环顾四周，倪旭欣已不在身边，大概是传送符将你们二人分别送到了不同的地方。¤Looking around, Ni Xuxin was no longer by your side. The teleportation charm probably sent the two of you to different places.
你正思考着，一道黑影不知从何处出现在身后。¤You are deep in thought when a dark shadow appears behind you, its origin unknown.
什么事？¤What's the matter?
{xiongdi}可知大名鼎鼎的星宫双圣？这两位前辈便是星宫的创始人，而林家便是双圣中广微仙子的家族。所以林家家主丹阳子前辈，虽不是广微仙子的嫡系，但也是关系较近的后辈。¤Do you know the famous Star Palace Twin Saints {xiongdi}? These two seniors are the founders of Star Palace, and the Lin Family is the family of Guangwei Immortal among the Twin Saints. Therefore, although the Lin Family Patriarch Yang Pill Senior is not a direct descendant of Guangwei Immortal, he is also a close descendant.
哦？难道还是真的不成？我可是对采补之术深恶痛绝，若是敢骗我，可有你受的。¤Oh? Could it really not work out? I deeply abhor the practice of gathering and refining, so if you dare to deceive me, you will suffer the consequences.
秘市？¤secret market.
但还真不一定是谣传。¤But it really may not be a rumor.
也不知林沐心用了什么方法，不出几日，宁州便是四处谣传滥用采补功法的邪修重现，一时间宁州的金丹期及以下修士皆是人人自危，影响之深俨然已成燎原之势，远超你的预料。¤It is unknown what method Lin Muxin used, but within a few days, rumors of evil cultivators abusing the collection and supplement technique spread throughout Ningzhou, causing fear among all cultivators below the Golden Core stage. The impact was far beyond your expectations and has become an unstoppable trend.
阁下，请留步。¤Senior, please stay.
元婴期...但他都元婴期了，也不会对我这种低阶修士感兴趣了吧？¤He's already at the Nascent Soul stage, so he wouldn't be interested in a low-level cultivator like me, right?
此等大事自然不会当做儿戏。星道友不如与我回到林家，让林沐心姑娘和你详细说说。¤This kind of important matter can't be taken lightly. Fellow Daoist Xing, why don't you come back to Lin Family with me and let Miss Lin Muxin explain the details to you.
可不是你想的那样。以前都说修习采补秘术突破到筑基虽然快，但要到金丹就已是难上加难。现在却有人能籍此修炼到元婴境，你觉得那些资质不佳的邪修会怎么想？¤It's not what you think. Before, it was said that practicing the Forbidden Art of Gathering was a fast way to break through to Foundation Building, but it was even harder to reach the Golden Core realm. Now, someone has been able to cultivate to the Nascent Soul stage using this method. What do you think those with poor aptitude among the demonic cultivators will think?
啊...那不是...¤Ah... that's not...
（看来暂时是出不去了，还是回客栈休息吧。）¤(It seems like I can't leave for now, let's go back to the inn to rest.)
当然，也包括出现在他们视野内的你。¤Of course, this includes you appearing in their field of vision.
但能让那些修士不敢随意靠近城门的并不是这些手持武器的凡人，而是在旁边看似闲聊的数位修士——他们正用神识监控附近的一切。¤But what prevents those cultivators from approaching the city gate at will are not these mortals wielding weapons, but the several cultivators who seem to be chatting nearby they are monitoring everything in the vicinity with their soul sense.
城门处，守门卫兵正手持武器于此戒严，一副请勿靠近的样子，周遭也确是几无人迹。¤At the city gate, the gate guards are holding weapons to enforce the martial law, giving off an aura of warning not to approach, with few signs of human activity in the surrounding area.
（看来暂时是出不去了，还是去别处看看吧。）¤(It seems that we can't leave for now, let's go somewhere else and take a look.)
来到客栈，掌柜果然已是受林府之命给你准备了一间灵气充裕的上房。¤Upon arriving at the inn, the innkeeper had indeed prepared an abundant spiritual energy-filled room for you under the orders of the Lin House.
行至传送阵前，却发现原本因大家都守序排队的传送阵前如今是熙攘一片，有询问何故封闭传送阵的，有起哄要求开启阵法的，更是有咒骂林家和星宫的，纷扰至极，好不热闹。¤Approaching the teleportation array, it was discovered that the previously orderly queue was now in chaos, with people asking why the teleportation array was closed, shouting for the activation of the array, as well as cursing the Lin family and Star Palace. The scene was extremely tumultuous and lively.
但在场的大抵是练气和筑基境修士，对于星宫与林家来说不过是蜉蝣而已，翻不起什么大浪。于是在林家的“安抚”之下，也就慢慢散去了。¤But the majority of those present were cultivators at the Qi Refining and Foundation Building stages. For the Star Palace and the Lin Family, they were nothing more than insignificant bugs, unable to stir up any waves. So, under the reassurance of the Lin Family, everything slowly dissipated.
（看来传送阵暂时是不会开启了，还是去别处看看吧。）¤(It seems like the teleportation array won't be activated for now, so let's go somewhere else.)
但...心儿自英杰会后一直在外游历，不在府中。若道友无其他要事，不妨入府品茶赏花。¤However, Little Xin has been traveling outside since the young hero's tournament and is not in the mansion. If Fellow Daoist has no other business, you may as well come into the mansion to taste tea and enjoy the flowers.
此乃私人住宅，仙长若无要事恕不接见。¤This is a private residence. If the immortal does not have any important matters, I apologize for not receiving them.
林府现下无暇接待宾客，还请移步{color=#d0380a}客栈{/color}小憩几日。¤The Lin House is currently too busy to accommodate guests. Please go to the inn for a few days of rest.
英杰会上道友与心儿不分上下，她还特意向我提起过呢。¤At the Young Hero's Tournament, fellow daoist and little Xin were evenly matched, and she even mentioned it to me specifically.
阁下难道是{FirstName}{LastName}道友？¤Is it possible that you are Fellow Daoist {FirstName} {LastName}?
道友听说过我？¤Have you heard of me, fellow daoist?
有事倒也说不上，只是路过天星城，顺道来拜访林沐心道友而已。¤There's no urgent matter, I was just passing by Starsky City and decided to visit fellow daoist Lin Muxin along the way.
正是，道友可是有事访问林府？¤Indeed, fellow daoist, do you have business to visit Lin House?
请问这里可是林府？¤Excuse me, is this the Lin residence?
道友请随我来。¤Fellow Daoist, please come with me.
既是如此，祝道友诸事顺意。待心儿回来后，我会告诉她道友曾来拜访。¤Since it is so, I wish fellow daoist all the best. After little xin comes back, I will tell her that fellow daoist came to visit.
之前英杰会上心儿被道友击败后，她可是对道友的实力赞不绝口呢。¤After Little Xin was defeated by a Fellow Daoist in the Young Hero's Tournament before, she couldn't stop praising the Fellow Daoist's strength.
况且那林家家主也是元婴期修为，再加上身份特殊，对于星宫，还是有很强的影响力的。¤Moreover, the Lin Family Patriarch is also at the Nascent Soul stage of cultivation, coupled with his special status, he still holds a strong influence over the Star Palace.
若说是想双修谋求突破吧，找个境界差不多的岂不是更好？要说用什么采补一类的邪术魔功，也不应该找上林家。以星宫和林家的关系，肯定不会为了区区金丹长老牺牲一个林二小姐的。¤If it's to seek a breakthrough through dual cultivation, wouldn't it be better to find someone at a similar level? And if you want to use some evil techniques or devil arts, you shouldn't go to the Lin Family. With the relationship between the Star Palace and the Lin Family, they won't sacrifice Miss Lin just for a Golden Core Elder.
蹊跷倒说不上，但林沐心不过是筑基期修为，星宫的老家伙却是金丹后期，甚至离寿元耗尽也就二三十年了。¤There's nothing particularly suspicious about it, but Lin Muxin's cultivation is only at the foundation establishment level, while the old man from the Star Palace is at the late golden core stage, and he has only thirty years left before his lifespan is exhausted.
倪兄为何一副不太看好的样子？难道这桩事有什么蹊跷？¤Why does Brother Ni look skeptical? Is there something fishy about this matter? 
这林家二小姐可是双灵根，林家的家主本来是把她当做家族的未来，打算全力培养的。不知怎么的，现在居然想让林沐心和星宫长老修为道侣。¤The second miss of the Lin family is a double spirit root. The head of the Lin family originally considered her as the future of the clan and planned to cultivate her with all their efforts. Somehow, now they want Lin Muxin to be the cultivation partner of the Star Palace Elder.
听说此次要联姻的是林府的二小姐和那星宫的一位金丹期长老，叫什么肾...不对，应该是空虚，哦不，是冲虚，对！冲虚散人。¤I heard that the marriage alliance this time is between the second miss of the Lin House and a senior elder in the Golden Core stage from the Star Palace, named Shen...no, it should be Kongxu, oh no, Chongxu, yes! Hermit Chongxu.
不早，不早，我其实也才到天星城哈哈。先给{FirstName}{xiongdi}介绍一下这次的结侣典礼吧。¤Not early, not early, I actually just arrived at Starsky City, haha. Let me first introduce {FirstName} {xiongdi} to the pairing ceremony this time.
倪兄来的真早。¤Brother Ni came really early.
王前辈这是怎么了？平时不都是一副盛气凌人的样子么，就连在大长老面前也没见他收敛多少。¤Senior Wang, what's going on? Usually you're always domineering, even in front of the grand elder you haven't shown much restraint.
王登一改之前毕恭毕敬的样子，刷的一下便是面色惨白。神态转变之快，让退在一边的两位守门弟子也是一惊，乃至忍不住小声讨论起来。¤Without hesitation, Wang Deng's previous respectful demeanor changed as his face turned pale in an instant. The sudden transformation was so fast that it surprised the two disciples guarding by the side, leading them to discuss in whispers.
{vpunch=10,0.5}你！你是当年那个！¤{vpunch=10,0.5}You! You're the one from back then!
哟，这不是王登王小友嘛，几十年不见，还在当看门弟子呢？¤Oh, isn't this Wang Deng and Wang Xiaoyou? Haven't seen you in decades, still working as a disciple guarding the door?
眼前金丹修士竟是当初林家花园的那个手下败将，你不由得嘴角勾起一丝戏谑。¤The cultivator with a golden core in front of your eyes turned out to be the subordinate who was defeated in Lin Family's garden back then. You couldn't help but curl your lips with a hint of playfulness.
晚辈王登见过前辈，请问前辈来星宫有何贵干？¤I, junior disciple Wang Deng, have met Senior. May I ask what brings Senior to the Star Palace?
来到星宫门口后，你感受数道神识探查扫过，但尽皆被你的身上的林家秘宝屏蔽了去。立时，守门弟子都退到一边，另有一个金丹修士从星宫内迎了出来。¤Upon arriving at the entrance of Star Palace, you felt several probes of soul sense scan over you, but they were all blocked by the Lin family secret treasure on your body. Immediately, the gatekeeper disciples stepped aside and a cultivator at the golden core stage came out from within Star Palace to welcome you.
既然上次的教训还不够，我今天就再让你长长记性！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Since you didn't learn your lesson from last time, I'll make sure to make you remember today! {vpunch=10,0.5}
我看你不过是以什么敛息法门让我难以查探你的境界罢，区区手下败将装什么前辈！¤I see that you are merely using some kind of restraint technique to prevent me from detecting your level. What is the point of pretending to be a senior when you are just a defeated underling?
哼，区区守门弟子竟敢对前辈不敬，星宫就是这么教导弟子的？¤Hmph. A mere gate-keeping disciple dares to be disrespectful to a senior. Is this how Star Palace teaches its disciples?
但王登此时可没时间留意他们。¤But Wang Deng at this time didn't have time to pay attention to them.
我们还是别聊王长老，万一被听到，倒霉的就该是我们了。¤We'd better not talk about Elder Wang. If we're overheard, we'll be the ones in trouble.
呵，对弟子不错？那也只是对你们女性修士而已。要知道，阿山这两天伤势才勉强恢复一点，又被王长老指派去完成那些最费力不讨好的师门任务了，都是些平时没人愿意接的活，甚至还有些以我们的修为很难处理的类型。就差把滥用职权写在脸上了。¤Hmm, you think this is good for disciples? It's only good for you female cultivators. You should know that Ah Shan's injuries have only just recovered a bit in the past two days, and he has been assigned by Elder Wang to complete those most difficult and thankless tasks of the sect. They are tasks that no one wants to do, and even some that are difficult to handle with our cultivation level. It's almost like displaying abuse of power on our faces.
啊，王前辈气量这么小么？我还以为他除了高傲了点外，对弟子还是不错的呢...¤Ah, is Senior Wang really so narrow-minded? I thought apart from being a bit arrogant, he was still quite nice to his disciples...
眼前的金丹修士竟是林家花园的那个登徒子，上次败于他手的屈辱你还铭记于心，不由得有些想法冒上心头。¤The golden core cultivator in front of me turned out to be the same disciple from the Lin family's garden. You still remember the humiliation of being defeated by him last time, and couldn't help but have some thoughts in your mind.
这好色的纨绔子弟怎么说也是金丹期修士，在哪个门派不是长老级别的人物，此刻竟被自己吓得步伐不稳，真是难得一见。¤This lewd and dissolute young master is at the golden core cultivation level, a person of elder level in any sect, now surprisingly scared by himself, truly a rare sight.
王登像是想到了什么不好的事情，脚下一滞，险些被自己绊倒，看得你也是一阵好笑。¤Wang Deng seemed to have thought of something unpleasant, his steps faltered and he almost tripped over himself, making you burst into laughter.
（当年在林府我就不是他对手，倒也...哎，还好后来没去找他麻烦，不然只怕...）¤(Back then in the Lin House, I was not his match, but...hmm, it's good that I didn't go looking for trouble with him later on, otherwise...)
（不会吧，我可是金丹期神修，竟探测不到他的修为！难不成他真是有了元婴期修为？）¤(Could it be? I'm a divine cultivator at the Golden Core level, yet I can't sense his cultivation level! Could it be that he really has reached the Nascent Soul level?)
王登一边说着，已是在前为你引路，但你还能听到他在小声嘀咕着什么。¤As Wang Deng spoke, he had already led the way for you, but you could still hear him muttering something under his breath.
前辈请跟我来。¤Please follow me, senior.
王登闻言愣了一会，半晌才恢复神态，早已退在一旁的男性守门弟子更是拼命憋着笑，乃至脸都涨得通红。¤Wang Deng was stunned for a while upon hearing this, and it took him a while to recover his composure. The male guard disciple who had long since stepped back was desperately holding back his laughter, even his face was flushed.
你什么你，我此番是为祝贺冲虚长老突破元婴而来，可没时间跟你个守门弟子浪费时间。还不速速去通报？¤What are you doing here? I came to congratulate Elder Chongxu on his breakthrough to Nascent Soul. I don't have time to waste with a gatekeeping disciple like you. Hurry up and go inform him.
可不是么。上个月初阿山只是稍稍顶撞王长老，当场就被他以教导实战为由打成重伤，场面可惨烈了。¤Of course. At the beginning of last month, Ashan just slightly went against Elder Wang and was immediately heavily injured by him using the excuse of teaching practical combat. The scene was quite tragic.
冲虚长老已经在大殿等候了，前辈请随我来。¤Elder Chong Xu is already waiting in the main hall, please follow me, Senior.
前辈请稍候。¤Senior, please wait a moment.
听闻贵宫冲虚长老近期成功晋入元婴期，特来祝贺，想顺道与他畅谈一番这天地大道。¤I have heard that the esteemed Palace of the Void elder has recently successfully advanced into the nascent soul stage, and have come to offer my congratulations while also wanting to discuss the great dao with him along the way.
可不是么。上个月初阿山只是稍稍顶撞王长老，当场就他以教导实战为由打成重伤，场面可惨烈了。¤as an excuse. The scene was horribly tragic.
{vpunch=10,0.5}你！你是当年那个不识好歹的修士！¤You! You are the cultivator from back then who didn't know what's good for you! {vpunch=10,0.5}
哟，这不是王登王前辈嘛，几十年不见，还在当看门弟子呢？¤Oh, isn't this Senior Wang Deng? Haven't seen you in decades, are you still working as a disciple guarding the gate?
星宫不接受外人拜访，还请见谅。¤The Star Palace does not accept visitors, please forgive us.
白帝楼有些事要与星宫宫主商量。¤The White Emperor Pavilion needs to discuss some matters with the Star Palace Master.
明白了，前辈请随我来。¤Understood, senior, please follow me.
说话间，储物袋中的白帝信物已是出现在你手中。¤During the conversation, the White Emperor keepsake from the storage pouch has already appeared in your hand.
为何大家都跑去港口了，莫不是出了什么事？要不我也去看看。¤Why is everyone going to the port? Is something happening? Maybe I should go and see too.
你在广陵城的街上走着，不知为何，街上的人纷纷向不远处的港口张望，一些人渐渐地向港口聚了过去。¤You are walking on the streets of Guangling City, for some unknown reason, people on the streets are looking towards the port not far away, and some people are gradually gathering towards the port.
哼，就爱凑热闹。也罢，就当是顺道去港口打探些消息，但记得可别摊上什么麻烦。¤Hmph, just love to join in the fun. Fine, let's go to the port along the way to gather some information, but make sure not to get into any trouble.
百里奇盛怒之下拂袖而去，你看见他似乎又去往港口的方向。¤Baili Qi left in a fit of anger, and you saw him heading towards the direction of the port.
真没想到{FirstName}{xiongdi}竟是此等背信弃义之人！¤I never thought {FirstName} {xiongdi} would be such a disloyal and unfaithful person!
百里兄久等了，我们这便返回无尽之海吧。¤Brother Baili, you have waited for a long time. Let's return to the Endless Sea now.
百里奇在不远处注视着你，你决定...¤Baili Qi is watching you from not far away, you decide...
城主近日有要事处理，暂不接纳外客，仙长请回吧。¤The Lord of the City has important matters to attend to recently, so we are not accepting any guests for now. Immortal Elder, please take your leave.
此乃百里私府，若无请帖恕不接待。¤This is the Baili private residence; without an invitation, we will not receive you.
怎么了管家，是何人在门外？¤What's wrong, steward? Who is outside the door?
少主，您怎么出来了？¤Young master, why did you come out?
这不是{FirstName}道友么？¤Is this not Fellow Daoist {FirstName}?
咦，这位道友年龄似与我相仿，不如同在下切磋一番？¤Oh, this fellow daoist seems to be around the same age as me. How about we have a duel?
这几日都不曾与人比试，一时技痒便出来转转...¤I haven't had a chance to compete with anyone in the past few days, so I came out to scratch my itch for skills.
上次英杰会上输给你已经是{$year}年前的事情了，我一直念念不忘，就想再寻个机会同你比试一番，不想今日却在百里府相遇。¤Last time I lost to you in the Young Hero's Tournament was {$year} years ago. I've never forgotten it and have been hoping for another chance to compete against you. I didn't expect to meet you today at the Baili Mansion.
在下还有要事在身，不便于此久留，告辞。¤I still have important matters to attend to and can't stay here for long. Excuse me.
可惜...可惜...¤Unfortunately... Unfortunately...
正合我意！我便与你走上几招！¤Very well! I will exchange a few moves with you!
前段时间英杰会一败后我便一直念念不忘，就想再寻个机会同你比试一番，不想却在百里府相遇。当真巧极妙极，快快请进。¤Recently, after the Young Hero's Tournament, I couldn't stop thinking about it, and I wanted to find another opportunity to spar with you. I didn't expect to meet you at the Baili Mansion. It's truly a coincidence. Please come in quickly.
巧极妙极，快快请进。¤Extremely clever and wonderful, please come in quickly.
少主前些日子随家族商队前往蓬莎岛了，阁下若有要事可前往无尽之海寻少主。¤The young master went with the family caravan to Pongsha Island a few days ago. If you have urgent matters, you can go to the Endless Sea to find the young master.
你依照约定来到百里家，但却并未发现百里奇的身影。¤You arrived at the Baili family as agreed, but did not find the figure of Baili Qi.
和百里兄约定的时间还没有到，我还是晚些时候再来吧...¤The agreed time with Brother Baili has not yet arrived, so I'll come back later.
焦兄不在这里...看来他已经出发了。¤Brother Jiao isn't here...it seems he has already set out.
嗯（这里一个两个都藏头漏尾的，不似善类啊。）¤Hmm (here, one or two are hiding their heads and showing their tails, they don't seem like good people).
阁下，这交易会已经开始了。你在这里最好不要暴露了自己的真实身份，在下还有些别的事情，就先告辞了。¤Esteemed senior, this trade fair has already begun. It is best for you not to expose your true identity here. I have other matters to attend to, so I bid you farewell.
前辈修为深厚，若是出手，此事定是手到擒来！¤The senior's cultivation is profound, if they take action, this matter will definitely be effortless!
嗯，我知道了。¤Hmm, I understand.
不必多礼，邀我来此究竟是为何事？¤No need for politeness, what exactly did you invite me here for?
说着，他便双手作揖，深深地向你鞠了一躬。¤As he spoke, he bowed deeply to you with both hands clasped together.
起初我还不是很在意，但就在前几日，我的一位好友也在方壶山附近失去了音讯……¤At first, I didn't pay much attention, but just a few days ago, one of my good friends also lost contact near Fang Hu Mountain...
前辈。¤Senior.
唉，可惜我不能亲手为他报仇...¤Alas, unfortunately I cannot exact revenge for him with my own hands...
谢过前辈。¤Thank you, senior.
这次多亏你帮我，才能查清真相。等以后我修为精进后，一定也可以帮到你的！¤This time thanks to your help, I was able to investigate and uncover the truth. After my cultivation improves in the future, I will definitely be able to help you too!
就知道你会帮我，谢啦！¤I knew you would help me, thanks!
见过前辈。¤I have seen  seniors.
嗯，后会有期。¤Umm, see you later.
你修为尚浅，我一个人前去就好了，你就等我的消息吧。¤Your cultivation is still shallow, I will go alone, you just wait for my message.
此事晚辈必铭记在心。¤I will remember this matter in my heart.
你摇了摇头。¤You shook your head.
（“又是方壶山？我记得之前就曾在这里发生过散修失踪的事件，莫非...）¤(It's Fang Hu Mountain again? I remember there was a case of wandering cultivators disappearing here before, could it be...)
我本想彻查此事，可奈何实力不足，这才想起前辈。¤I wanted to thoroughly investigate this matter, but alas, my strength is insufficient. That's when I thought of my senior.
…说吧，喊我过来到底是有什么事？¤Speak, why did you call me over? What's the matter?
如何？¤How?
他没有说话，只是向你深深鞠了一躬。¤He didn't speak, just bowed deeply to you.
（我派后山？我记得之前就曾在这里发生过散修失踪的事件，莫非...）¤(My sect's back mountain? I remember there was once an incident of wandering cultivators disappearing here before, could it be...)
……你有这份心就好。¤If you have this intention, then it is good.
前辈你可算来了，我都等了好久了。¤Senior, you finally came. I have been waiting for a long time.
怎么样了？¤How are you?
我一好友于方壶山失踪，恳请前辈彻查此事。¤My friend went missing at Fang Hu Mountain, please investigate this matter thoroughly, senior.
无妨，除魔卫道本就是吾辈职责所在。¤No problem, eliminating demons and upholding justice is our duty.
抱歉，我没有找到幸存者。¤I'm sorry, I didn't find any survivors.
前辈你终于来了，我都等了好久了。¤Senior, you've finally arrived. I've been waiting for a long time.
你如实讲述了这次经历，他原本期待的神情也变得失落起来。¤You truthfully recounted this experience, and his originally expectant expression became disappointed.
其实近来方壶山一带很不太平，经常有散修失踪的传言流出。¤Actually, the Fang Hu Mountain area has been very turbulent lately, with frequent rumors of wandering cultivators disappearing.
此番让前辈只身犯险，还报了吾友之仇，这份恩情，真不知该如何报答前辈……¤This time, the senior risked his life alone and even avenged my friend. I really do not know how to repay this kindness to the senior.
一会儿我开炉炼丹，你便开始帮我煽火。记住，我这炉丹须得炼制七七四十九天，期间丹火必须一直保持旺盛，不能有任何停顿。要是让我这一炉养气丹炼废了，你这{xiaozi}可赔不起。¤In a moment, I will start alchemy in the furnace, and you'll help me fan the flames. Remember, I need to refine this pill for 49 days, during which time the alchemical fire must be kept strong and steady without any pauses. If this batch of Lesser Qi Pills fail, you, my {xiaozi}, won't be able to afford the reparations.
前辈误会了，在下...在下是刚入门的外门弟子，这次是不小心误入丹房，这便离开！¤Senior, you misunderstood. I am a new outer disciple who just entered the sect. I accidentally entered the dan room, please allow me to leave!
他轻而易举地就把你像孩子似的提了起来，将你上下打量了一翻，你被他钳子一样的大手牢牢抓住，动弹不得。¤He easily picked you up like a child and examined you up and down. You were firmly held by his clamp-like hands and unable to move.
哼，又想反悔？我看你们这群外门弟子就该多吃吃苦，你今天可别想再跑了，谁来问我要人我都不放！¤Hmph, wanting to backtrack again? I think you outer disciples should endure more hardships. Don't even think about running away today. I won't release anyone, no matter who asks for them.
哼，又想反悔？好不容易青竹给我送来个靠谱的弟子，你今天可别想再跑了，谁来问我要人我都不放！¤Hmph, you want to backtrack again? Qīngzhú finally brought me a reliable disciple, so don't even think about running away today. Whoever comes to ask me for people, I won't let you go!
老夫{color=#d0380a}每年{/color}都会为宗门开炉炼丹，你要是有空，就来炼丹房帮忙煽火，好处我自然少不了你的。¤Every year, I will personally open the furnace for alchemy in the clan. If you have time, come to the alchemy room and help me stoke the fire. I won't forget to repay you for your help.
即便如此，在连续煽了七七四十九天后，你再也拿不住扇子，一屁股跌坐在地，大口地喘着粗气。好在由于这段时间不断的运转功法，消耗与吸收灵气，你的修为也似乎精进了不少。¤Even so, after continuously fanning for forty-nine days, you can no longer hold the fan and sit down on the ground, panting heavily. Fortunately, due to continuously practicing your technique and absorbing qi during this time, it seems that your cultivation has improved quite a bit.
修为{color=#d0380a}+500{/color}¤Cultivation level increased by {color=#d0380a}500{/color}.
你炼气中期的修为，举起数百斤的东西也毫不费力，但这扇子每挥一次，都要耗尽你全身的所有气力。你只能一边运转功法恢复体力，才能勉强维持住消耗。¤Your mid qi refining cultivation allows you to effortlessly lift hundreds of pounds, but every time you wave this fan it drains all of your energy. You can only recover your strength by activating your technique, in order to barely sustain the consumption.
算了算了，我这炉丹可不等人，这次就先用你这{xiaozi}吧。¤Forget it, forget it. My pill refinement can't wait. I'll use your assistance this time, {xiaozi}.
啧啧，法力低微，力气又小，这青竹也太不厚道，怎么给我找了个这么孱弱的弟子来？¤Tsk tsk, weak magical power and little strength. This bamboo is so unreliable. Why did it find such a weak disciple for me?
你炼气后期的修为，举起数百斤的东西也毫不费力，但这扇子每挥一次，都要耗尽你全身的所有气力。你只能一边运转功法恢复体力，才能勉强维持住消耗。¤Your late qi refining cultivation allows you to effortlessly lift hundreds of pounds, but with each swing of the fan, it drains all of your body's strength. You can only recover by using your technique to restore your energy, in order to barely maintain the consumption.
前辈误会了，在下不知前辈正在开炉炼丹，这次是不小心误入丹房，这便离开！¤Senior misunderstood, I did not know that Senior was in the process of opening the furnace to alchemy. I accidentally entered the dan room this time. I will leave now!
他一边说着，一边拎着你大步流星地走进丹房，然后把你放在丹炉边，从储物袋里取出一柄巨大地蒲扇，交到你手里。你一把抓住扇子，只觉得重的几乎难以握住，不由得心中暗自叫苦...¤He spoke while carrying you swiftly into the dan room, then placing you beside the alchemy furnace. He took out a huge palm-leaf fan from the storage pouch and handed it to you. As you grabbed the fan, you felt its weight almost unbearable, and couldn't help but inwardly lament.
你走进炼丹房，一股浓郁的药香便包围了你，只是深深地吸了几口气，就让你觉得精神充沛了起来。正当你好奇地四处张望时，你被人从身后一把揪住...¤You walk into the alchemy room, and a strong medicinal fragrance surrounds you. Just taking a few deep breaths fills you with energy. As you curiously look around, someone grabs you from behind...
臭{xiaozi}，来得这么晚，还要老夫亲自出去找你么？¤Stinky youngster, coming so late, do I have to personally go out and look for you?
不错...不错，资质根骨具佳，这次青竹倒是肯给我找个靠谱的弟子来了？¤Not bad... Not bad, your aptitude and physical constitution are excellent. Did Qingzhu finally find me a reliable disciple this time?
你炼气初期的修为，举起上百斤的东西也毫不费力，但这扇子每挥一次，都要耗尽你全身的所有气力。你只能一边运转功法恢复体力，才能勉强维持住消耗。¤Your cultivation at the early qi refining stage allows you to effortlessly lift objects weighing over a hundred pounds, but every swing of this fan drains all of your energy. You can only recover your strength by practicing techniques, in order to barely maintain the consumption.
嘿，你修为虽差，不过毅力倒是可佳，也算是个可造之才。¤Hey, although your cultivation is lacking, your perseverance is commendable. You can be considered a talent with potential.
老夫找人帮忙炼丹，丹成之后都会送一粒作为报酬，这枚养气丹你且收下。¤I am looking for someone to help with alchemy. After the pill is successfully cultivated, I will give one as a reward. Please accept this lesser qi pill.
你眼前是一个由龙尸死气组成的巨大气旋，但气眼却不断地产生勃勃生机，生与死在此刻达到了微妙的平衡。¤Before your eyes is a huge cyclone composed of death qi from the dragon corpse, but the eye of the qi is constantly producing vigorous vitality, achieving a delicate balance between life and death at this moment.
死极反生！¤Death is the extreme opposite of life!
不过，若是小友对于蜕凡化神成竹在胸，也可以化神之后再来，届时必然收获更大。¤However, if young friend has the aspiration to attain the transformation of deity after shedding mortal form and becoming a bamboo, it is also possible to come after the transformation and the harvest will certainly be greater.
之后的事小友也就知道了，鲲族孽畜来袭，他们避难此地并以此建立了龙宫。¤As for what happened afterwards, the young friend would come to know that the Kun clan's evil beasts attacked, and they sought refuge in this place and established the Dragon Palace.
不过此地因为是后天促成，过于脆弱若不是突破元婴我龙族中人也不得在此修炼。¤However, due to being artificially created, this place is too fragile. If I hadn't undergone the breakthrough to nascent soul, even a member of my Dragon Clan couldn't cultivate here.
龙族竟能以后天之力培养出天地异象，确实是底蕴深厚。¤The Dragon Clan's ability to cultivate celestial and terrestrial phenomena with postnatal power is truly profound.
小友准备好了？¤Is the young friend ready?
你醒来发现九霄大圣一直维持着此地的运转，那团魂火似乎暗淡了几分。¤You wake up to find that the Great Sage of the Nine Heavens has been maintaining the operation of this place, and the soul fire seems to have dimmed a little.
小友过誉了，此地乃是先天极阴之地，这天地异象还是占据地利之功。¤Dear young friend, you flatter me. This land is the land of extreme yin energy, and the strange phenomena in the sky and earth are due to the advantageous geographic location.
化神便是蜕凡成仙的过程，此地死极反生之象暗含天地运转之道。小友进入其中修炼可以提前积累几分仙性。¤Deity transformation is the process of transforming from mortal to immortal, and the scene of extreme death and rebirth here implies the way of the operation of the heaven and earth. Young friend can enter and cultivate here to accumulate some immortality ahead of time.
你感受这生死轮转，陷入了空灵之境。¤You feel the cycle of life and death, and are trapped in a state of emptiness.
当年，我发现此地之不凡将这里作为我龙族龙墓之一，以我龙族强者的尸身进一步温养此地。¤Back then, I found that this place was extraordinary and chose it as one of the dragon tombs of my dragon clan. I further nurtured this place with the corpses of powerful members of my dragon clan.
（怪不得九霄能一举获得龙宫大阵的掌控权。）¤(No wonder Jiuxiao was able to gain control of the Dragon Palace formation in one move.)
看来小友收获不小，此番我消耗不少，恕不远送了。¤It seems that young friend has gained a lot. This time, I have consumed a lot, so I will not send you far away.
不错，此地正是天地异象——死极反生之象。¤Not bad, this place is exactly where the oddity of the world occurs the omen of death giving birth to life.
不可思议！{shidi}你...你居然闯过了幻雾阵！¤Incredible! {shidi} you...you actually made it through the Mirage Mist Array! 
就连大师兄都没能在炼气期就完整闯过幻雾阵，{shidi}的前途不可限量啊。¤Even the senior brother couldn't pass through the Mirage Mist Array intact during the Qi Refining stage, the future of {shidi} is limitless.
恭喜{shixiong}成功闯出了幻雾阵！¤Congratulations {shixiong} on successfully breaking through the Mirage Mist Array!
{shidi}过谦了，就连大师兄都没能在炼气期就完整闯过幻雾阵，{shidi}的前途不可限量啊。¤{shidi} is too modest. Even senior brother couldn't pass through the Mirage Mist Array in the Qi Refining stage, so {shidi}'s future is limitless.
你又来到此处，远远的便瞧见拿到耀眼的金色遁光。今天一定要抓住那个胆敢挑衅禾山道的散修！¤You have come to this place again, and from afar you can see a dazzling golden escape light. Today, you must capture that reckless indie. cultivator who dared to challenge Mt. Harvest Sect!
这样做的风险是不是太大了，万一百里家护送商品的队伍里有筑基期的修士怎么办？¤Is the risk of doing this too high? What if there are cultivators in the foundation establishment stage in the team escorted by the Baili family for the goods?
{vpunch=10,0.5}轰！¤Boom!
广陵城百里家的势力非同小可，大家切记，一定不要留下任何一个活口！¤The influence of the Baili family in Guangling city is not to be underestimated. Everyone, remember not to leave any survivors!
哼，下次我一定能抓住你。¤Hmmph, next time, I will definitely catch you. 
嘘！敛息隐蔽，等他们进入大阵再动手。¤Shh! Restrain your breath and hide, wait until they enter the big formation before taking action.
哼，这个禾山道小鬼，速度倒还挺快，正好，让我看看你有什么能耐！¤Hmph, this little devil from Mt. Harvest Sect is quite fast. Perfect, let me see what you are capable of!
动手！¤Start now!
一道金色的遁光从你前方掠过，似乎是在挑衅你，你想起麻老九交代的事情，这应该就是上次他说的那个散修吧！¤A golden escape light passed by you, seemingly provoking you. You remembered what Old Ma had instructed you, this should be the wandering cultivator he mentioned last time! 
老大！好...好像有人来了！¤Boss! Okay... It seems like someone is here!
你奋力追赶，但显然，那人的遁术远高于你，很快便不见了踪影。¤You tried your best to catch up, but evidently, that person's mobility technique is far superior to yours, and soon disappeared without a trace.
放心，如果有筑基期修士，我来负责对付。有大阵的加持，就算是筑基后期的修士，我也可以应付的来。¤Don't worry, if there are Foundation Establishment cultivators, I will be responsible for dealing with them. With the support of the formation, even Late Foundation Establishment cultivators, I can handle them.
我已经在此处用火铜布下了赤炎灵阵，等百里家的商队到了，我便会启动大阵。你们身上带着我给你们的阵符，就可以避开大阵的攻击。等大阵启动之时，我们便一起出手。¤I have already set up the Red Hot Spirit Array here using Fire Copper. When the Baili Family's caravan arrives, I will activate the array. You are carrying the formation talisman I gave you, so you can avoid the attack of the array. When the array is activated, we will attack together.
一道传音自麟庙中传出。¤A message was transmitted from Lin Temple.
{FirstName}{shidi}，家师想要见见你，不知可否方便？¤{FirstName} {shidi}, our master wishes to meet with you. Would it be convenient for you?
我这就来。¤I'm coming right now.
外门弟子不得随意出入宗门大殿¤Outer disciples are not allowed to freely enter the great hall of the clan. A member of the clan must be respectful of the rules and regulations set in place for outer disciples and their access to the great hall.
宗门重地，外门弟子不得随意出入。¤The clan's important site, outer disciples cannot enter and exit as they please.
麟庙大门紧闭，门前空无一人。¤The gate of Lin Temple is tightly closed, and there is no one in front of the gate.
麟庙重地暂不开放，若是无事，还请速速离去。¤The important area of Lin Temple is temporarily not open. If there is no business, please leave quickly.
麟庙重地暂不开放，{shidi}若是无事，还请速速离去。¤The Lin Temple is currently closed to the public. If you have no business here, please leave quickly, {shidi}.
师兄，可是还有指教？¤Senior brother, do you have any advice?
嗯，我明白了。（转身离开）¤Mmm, I understand. (Turns around and leaves.)
指教倒是称不上....¤It's not really worthy of your guidance.
对方面露犹豫，似在犹豫当不当讲。¤The opponent hesitated slightly, it seemed like they were unsure whether or not to speak.
我观{shidi}气息，可是修炼了《魔焰决》？¤I have observed {shidi}'s aura, it seems they have cultivated the 《Demonic Flame Technique》.
魔焰决虽是本门奇功，但是有损本源，{shidi}修行之时切记不可贪图一时之利。¤Although the Devil Flame Technique is a unique skill of our sect, it damages our fundamental essence. {shidi}, when practicing, remember not to be greedy for short-term gains. 
多谢师兄忠告。¤Thank you senior brother for the advice.
{xiaozi}，最近麟庙闭门谢客，没事别捣乱。¤{xiaozi}, recently the Lin Temple has closed its doors to visitors, please refrain from causing trouble.
一道神识从扫过你。¤A divine sense swept over you.
我还是不要乱逛为好。¤I'd better not wander around aimlessly.
{shidi}，留步。¤${shidi} please stay.
麟庙之下一股巨大的生机与火灵气交织在一起，忽强忽弱好似心脏的跳动。¤Under the Lin Temple, a huge vitality and fire spirit energy are intertwined, sometimes strong and sometimes weak, like the beating of a heart.
在此关键之时，我还是不要打扰了。¤At this critical moment, it is better for me not to disturb.
你刚走近宗门广场，只听一道气息悠长的笑声传到你的耳边。¤You just approached the clan square, and only heard a long-lasting breath of laughter coming to your ears.
跟我来，我这便带你去拜见长老。¤Follow me, I will take you to see the elder.
大长老的声音：哈哈哈哈，{FirstName}师侄，恭喜你证得金丹大道，还请来大殿一叙。¤The voice of the Grand Elder
我古月寨不接外客。¤My Gu Yue village does not receive external guests.
一片废墟也没什么好看的。¤There's nothing good to see in a pile of ruins.
道友，我玄古门不接外客，还请回吧。¤Fellow Daoist, my Profound Ancient Sect does not receive foreign guests, please leave.
奇怪，怎么连值守的弟子也没有？¤Strange, why aren't even the disciples on duty here?
此处守山大阵全力运转。¤The Shoushan Great Formation is operating at full capacity here.
{LastName}，快走。本门出现重大变故有可能会波及到你。¤{LastName}, hurry and leave. There has been a major upheaval within our sect which may affect you.
此时一道传音符从阵内飞出。¤At this moment, a sound talisman flew out of the formation.
好，我现在被困于地下二层炼血台，我们见面谈。¤Okay, I am currently trapped in the second level blood refining platform underground. Let's meet and talk.
你我相识一场，怎能袖手旁观？¤We have become acquainted with each other, how could I watch from the sidelines?
什么事情也没有发生。¤Nothing happened.
空间通道被毁，已经不可能再回宁州古迹了...¤The spatial passage has been destroyed, making it impossible to return to the Ning Province ancient ruins...
要进入空间裂隙么？¤Do you want to enter the space rift?
你凝聚周身灵力，纵身跃入空间裂隙之中...¤You gather spiritual energy throughout your body and leap into the midst of the space rift.
宁州古迹每隔千年方可进入一次，我还是等{color=#d0380a}第500年{/color}时再来吧。¤I will wait until {color=#d0380a}500 years{/color} to visit the Ning Province ancient ruins, which can only be entered once every thousand years. Note
阁下是第一次来天机阁吧。¤You must be visiting the Heavens Secrets Pavilion for the first time, Your Excellency.
正是，阁下是？¤Exactly, who are you?
道友自己转转吧，我就不打扰了。¤Fellow daoist, please take your leave. I won't disturb you.
我天机阁主要分为主阁，天衍阁和拍卖行。¤My Heavens Secrets Pavilion is mainly divided into the Main Pavilion, Heavenly Derivative Pavilion, and Auction House. 
拍卖行自是举行拍卖会的地方，10年一届，金丹期修士便可参加。¤The auction house is the place where auctions are held, held once every 10 years, and cultivators in the golden core stage can participate.
主阁，乃是阁主之所在，如无要事还请道友不要靠近。¤Main pavilion, is where the pavilion master resides. If there is no urgent matter, please do not approach, fellow daoist.
刚刚进入大门，远处一名修士向你走来。¤Just as you entered through the entrance, a cultivator is walking towards you from afar.
在下天机阁接引执事，就由在下向你介绍一下吧。¤I am the receptionist deacon of the Secrets Pavilion. Let me introduce myself to you.
天衍阁是我天机阁售卖情报玉简之所，道友要是有兴趣探探秘境，不妨去看看。¤The Heavenly Derivative Pavilion is where we sell Intelligence Jade for the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion. Fellow Daoist, if you are interested in exploring the secret realm, you may want to take a look.
大比还没有开始。¤The Dabi hasn't started yet.
这一次的大比真是精彩。¤The grand competition this time was truly wonderful.
道友，天机阁核心区域还请止步。¤Fellow Daoist, please refrain from entering the core area of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion.
明白了...道友请随我来。¤Understood... Fellow daoist, please follow me.
前辈请进。¤Senior, please come in.
你看到眼前的建筑笼罩在一层薄薄的光幕之下，走近之时，你感到身上天机令一阵波动，光幕开启一个通道。\n¤You see the building in front of you shrouded in a thin veil of light on Level 1. As you approach, you feel a ripple in your Tianji Order, and the veil opens a passage.
道友，我天机阁拍卖会需金丹修士持有天机令方可进入。¤Fellow cultivator, to enter the Heavens Secrets Pavilion Auction, one must possess the Tianji Order as a golden core cultivator.
你看到眼前的建筑笼罩在一层薄薄的光幕之下，走进之时将你弹开。\n¤You see the building in front of you covered by a thin layer of light screen, which bounces you away when you try to step inside.
道友请进。¤Fellow Daoist, please come in.
你点点头，若有所思的走入拍卖行。¤You nod and walk into the Auction House, lost in thought.
道友有所不知，由于此次拍卖事关重大，所以各门派、家族都只是派了代表前来。¤Fellow Daoist should be capitalized when used as a direct address or title .- The Sect should be capitalized when used as a proper noun to refer to a specific sect or organization .
今天不是拍卖仙府钥匙么，怎会如此冷清？¤Isn't today the day for auctioning off the key to the immortal palace? Why is it so empty?
刚进入光幕你就发现拍卖场和平时不太一样。原本热闹非凡的拍卖场如今竟是显得有些冷清。¤Upon entering the light curtain, you will notice that the auction house is different from usual. The originally bustling auction house now appears to be somewhat quiet.
你看到眼前的建筑笼罩在一层薄薄的光幕之下，走近之时，你感到身上的天机令一阵波动，光幕开启一个通道。¤You see the buildings in front of you are surrounded by a thin layer of light screen. As you approach, you feel a slight wave in your Tianji Order, and the screen opens a pathway.
没想到{mengpai}竟能觅得如此良才，第一次参加试炼便有此佳绩，实是宗门幸事啊！¤I didn't expect {mengpai} to find such a good talent. This is their first time participating in the trial and they have achieved such excellent results. It is truly fortunate for the clan!
此事牵扯过多......唉，师妹暂且别再提及为上。¤This matter involves too much... sigh, let's not bring up Sister for now.
一口一个师兄倒是叫得挺甜，不过某些人毕竟境界有限，也只能逞逞口舌之快。¤The two vast eternities of life and death over ten years cannot be forgotten by oneself who did not reflect on them.
在他的接引下，你来到了同门修士暂居之处。¤Under his guidance, you arrived at the temporary dwelling place of fellow cultivators. 
背负剑匣的黄衫男修面色两难地站在中间，一副手足无措的模样。¤The man in a yellow shirt with a sword box on his back stood in the middle with a conflicted expression, looking helpless and unsure of what to do.
......道友看来对自己的相貌十分自信。¤Fellow Daoist seems to be very confident in their appearance.
试炼之地一片荒芜，受禁制松动泄露的魔气影响几乎没有植物生长，嶙峋尖锐的山石遍布视野可及之处。¤The Trial Place is a desolate land where the Magic Qi leaked due to the loosening of the restrictions, and almost no plants grow. Jagged rocks are scattered as far as the eye can see.
言罢，玄道宗长老周身泛起蓝色光晕，不远处的禁制遥相呼应般地亮起，随着长老法力的注入一行行纹路于禁制上凝现而出。¤Having said that, a blue halo appeared around the Mystic Dao Sect Elder's body and the nearby seal lit up in response. As the Elder infused his mana, rows of patterns condensed onto the seal.
嘿嘿，这位道友不好意思，请问离火门的营地在哪边啊？¤Hehe, sorry fellow daoist, may I ask where the Fire Gate Sect's campsite is located?
依我看这阵......¤In my opinion, this formation...
不同宗门的修士分散在禁制前的空地上各自为营，熙攘的人群给这片荒凉的土地带来别样的生机。¤Different clan's cultivators dispersed on the open space in front of the restrictions, each doing their own thing. The bustling crowd brought a different kind of vitality to this desolate land.
熟料天不遂人意，刚闭上眼睛就被重重拍了一巴掌。你略微恼怒地转过头去，发现对方是位离火门弟子。¤The weather was not going well and just as you closed your eyes, you were heavily slapped. Slightly annoyed, you turned your head and found that it was a Fire Gate Disciple.
哼，起码我不会两面三刀丢下师兄独自一人。¤Hmph. At least I won't be two-faced and abandon senior brother to be alone.
好嘞，那就不叨扰道友了。¤Okay, then I won't bother my fellow daoist anymore.
魏无极话还没说完，你便被一股强大的吸力传送进另一个空间。还没等看清周边事物就两眼一黑昏了过去。¤Capitalization usage for Wei Wuji and Wuji may vary depending on author preferences or style guides. However, Suction should be written in lowercase as it is not a proper noun.
{FirstName}{LastName}，{$TempValue}只！¤{FirstName}{LastName}, only {$TempValue}!
我姓{FirstName}名{LastName}，邢兄赤子之心，我也正有心结交。如若再次相遇我定愿和邢兄结伴同行。¤My last name is {FirstName} and my first name is {LastName}. Xing Brother, I also have the intention of forging a bond with you. If we meet again, I am willing to travel together with you, Xing Brother.
嗨，我一兰枝玉树临风流倜傥小郎君看着像是挑事儿的人吗？¤Hi, do I, Lan Zhi, a handsome and elegant young man with a jade tree-like appearance, look like someone who likes to cause trouble?
多谢道友！这帮修士实在心性凉薄，我一连问了几位都没有得到回应。¤Thank you fellow daoist! These cultivators are truly lacking in compassion, I asked several of them but did not receive a response.
此外，你们手中的天魔令会通过吸收魔物残魂记录每位弟子斩杀的魔物数量。¤Furthermore, the heavenly demon order in your hands will record the number of spirit beasts each disciple has slain by absorbing the remnant souls of the spirit beasts.
凭着来时的印象，你大致说出了一个位置。¤Based on your impression from when you came, you roughly stated a location.
一阵眩晕过后，你已回到试炼之地入口处。¤After a moment of dizziness, you have returned to the entrance of the trial place.
想来除去境内遇险弟子，所有人都传送而出。清点人数后请各派以自身灵气激活天魔令上的印记，静候本派弟子前去记录。¤All disciples who encountered danger within the territory have been sent out. After counting the numbers, each sect is asked to activate the mark on the Heavenly Demon Order with their own spiritual energy, and await the arrival of our sect's disciples to record them.
你想起各门派貌合神离的盟约，不禁感慨人心难测，这位邢兴星也不知有何企图。¤You remember the elusive alliance of each sect, and can't help but sigh at the unpredictability of human hearts. You wonder what motives Xing Xing Xing may have.
哈哈哈，那我便先前去寻找宗门所在，有缘自会相见。¤Hahaha, then I will go and search for the location of the clan. If we are meant to meet, we will.
循着声音望去，一位身材娇小的黄衣女修与一位面容秀美的蓝袍女修发生了争执。¤Looking towards the sound, a petite yellow-clothed female cultivator and a beautiful blue-robed female cultivator were quarreling.
想来除去境内遇险弟子，所有人都传送而出。清点人数后请诸位小友以自身灵气激活天魔令上的印记，静候本派弟子前去记录。¤All those who encountered danger within the territory were teleported out. After counting the number of people, please activate the mark on the Heavenly Demon Order with your own spiritual energy, and wait for our disciples to come and record the information.
看来这天魔眼以上古秘法封印，如彻底溃散怕是倾整个宁州之力也未必能够重建，难怪每隔二十年就需要修士除魔以免禁制生变。¤It seems that if the ancient secret technique sealing the Heavenly Devil's Eye completely disintegrates, even the whole power of Ningzhou might not be able to rebuild it. No wonder why every twenty years, cultivators need to eliminate demons to prevent the restriction from changing.
你独自一人，无门无派，从玄道宗的执事那里领取了天魔令后，便随便找了块空地盘腿坐下，准备趁此机会先调整一番。¤You are alone, with no sect or school, after obtaining the Heavenly Demon Order from the steward of the Xuan Dao Sect, you randomly found a empty space to sit down cross-legged, ready to take this opportunity to adjust yourself.
不多时，这二名玄道宗弟子便已行至你面前。¤Before long, these two Xuan Dao Sect disciples had already arrived in front of you.
道友此话差矣，入口处有一玄道宗弟子专门负责接引各派修士，想来其他人或许会认为道友是刻意挑衅。¤Fellow Daoist, your words are incorrect. At the entrance, there is a Mystic Dao Sect disciple specifically responsible for guiding cultivators from various sects. Others may think that you are deliberately provoking.
嘿嘿，这位道友不好意思，请问竹山宗的营地在哪边啊？¤Hey hey, fellow daoist, sorry to bother you, but may I ask where the Bamboo Mountain Sect's camp is located? 
外界发生的事并不能影响你修练的打算，毕竟前方目的地险象环生，还是多做些准备为好。¤External events cannot affect your cultivation plans. After all, the destination ahead is full of dangers, so it is better to be more prepared.
人群中负责计数的弟子一位高声喊出修士的杀魔数量，一位在本子上记载下来。¤In the crowd, a disciple in charge of counting loudly shouted out the number of cultivators who had killed demons, while another recorded it in their notebook.
{color=#d0380a}三十日{/color}后禁制将再次开启将诸位传出，若无天魔令则陷于其中无法出脱。¤{color=#d0380a}Thirty days{/color} later the restriction will be opened again and everyone will be sent out. If you don't have the Heavenly Demon Order, you will be trapped inside and unable to escape.
穿着竹山宗道袍的修士好像东北方多一点，道友不妨前去查探一番？¤The cultivator wearing the Bamboo Mountain Sect's robe seems to be more in the northeast direction, fellow daoist could go and investigate?
众人喧闹间，这二名玄道宗弟子已行至你面前。¤Amidst the noisy crowd, these two Xuan Dao Sect disciples have already arrived in front of you.
熟料天不遂人意，刚闭上眼睛就被重重拍了一巴掌。你略微恼怒地转过头去，发现对方是位竹山宗弟子。¤The mature material sky did not go as planned, and as soon as you closed your eyes, you were slapped hard. You turned your head slightly in anger and discovered that the other party was a disciple of the Bamboo Mountain Sect.
正打算闭目养神时，你听见不远处传来一阵嘈杂的吵闹声。¤Just as you were about to close your eyes to rest, you heard a commotion not far away.
嘘，听说李青麟是为了照顾那些修为略弱的师弟师妹才落得此等成绩。¤Shh, it is said that Li Qinglin achieved such results in order to take care of his junior and sister disciples who have slightly weaker cultivation.
试炼之地如上届一样人声鼎沸，想来也只有这个时段此地才热闹异常。¤The trial place is as lively as the previous year, and it seems that only during this period and in this land would it be exceptionally bustling.
那么本届猎魔试炼就此结束，我派长老还需在此加固天魔眼的封印，诸位道友现在可以自行返回各自的宗门了。¤So this year's demon-hunting trial ends here. Our elder needs to reinforce the seal on the Heavenly Demon's Eye here. Fellow daoists, you can now return to your respective clans.
离火门的大师兄当真神武，方才那竹山宗的李青麟斩杀了11只魔物便成赛中佼佼者，他竟超出这许多！¤The senior brother of the Fire Gate Sect is truly powerful. Just now, Li Qinglin from the Bamboo Mountain Sect became one of the top performers in the competition by killing 11 spirit beasts. But he has exceeded even that!
试炼结束后会在本地举行一场{color=#d0380a}杀魔竞赛{/color}，获胜的弟子将得到宗门奖励，望诸位多加努力。¤After the trial ends, there will be a {color=#d0380a}demon slaying competition{/color} held locally, and the winning disciples will receive rewards from the clan. Please strive harder.
你向天魔令缓缓注入灵力，令牌闪烁着零星冰蓝光点，逐渐汇聚成古朴的苍色文字。¤You slowly infused spiritual power into the Heavenly Demon Order, causing the token to shimmer with sporadic ice blue light spots, gradually converging into ancient blue characters.
待老夫看看......像是失传已久的上古符箓。¤Let this old man take a look... It's like an ancient rune that has long been lost.
你收下这些丹药回去好生炼化，不要浪费了自己在修炼一途上的天赋。¤Take these pills back and refine them carefully. Don't waste your natural talents in cultivation.
所谓机遇险中求，试炼之地虽险却孕育诸多奇材异宝，能否得取便看你们自身机缘。只一件事你们切莫遗忘，临行前所得的天魔令万万不可遗失。¤do not lose the heavenly demon order that you have obtained.
你......！¤You...!
上届猎魔试炼里也记不清是谁结盟时信誓旦旦，结果见形势不对却趁乱带着同门一并溜走，害得师兄们差一点就此陨落！¤In the previous demon hunting trial, I can't remember who made a solemn vow when forming an alliance. However, when the situation turned unfavorable, they took advantage of the chaos and fled with their fellow disciples, causing the senior brothers to almost fall!
请问道友可是{menpai}所属？¤May I ask if you are a fellow daoist from {menpai}?
炎萧，17只！¤Yan Xiao, 17!
没想到师姐还与金虹剑派那两个弟子有这等瓜葛...¤I didn't expect that senior sister had such a relationship with those two disciples of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect...
并未等候多长时间，玄道宗长老便将你等传送进了天魔眼。¤Without waiting for too long, the mystic dao sect elder immediately transported you all into the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
全场鸦雀无声。¤The whole scene fell silent.
这九转丹有增进修为的功效，在三品丹药中也算是比较稀有的。¤This nine turns pill has the effect of enhancing cultivation, and is also considered rare among third grade pills.
请问各位道友可是{menpai}所属？¤May I ask if you are fellow daoists of the same {sect}?
你此番在天魔眼中的表现还算不错，不过似乎也没什么人特别在乎你的成绩。¤Your performance in the Heavenly Devil's Eye this time is not bad, but it seems that no one particularly cares about your achievements.
几名玄道宗的修士从你手中接过天魔令，开始清算这届试炼中大家的成绩。¤Several cultivators from the Xuan Dao Sect took the Heavenly Demon Order from your hand and began to settle everyone's results in this trial.
想必各位已经知晓此次试炼缘由，老朽便不多赘述。¤Surely everyone is aware of the reason for this trial, so I won't say more.
那是当然。¤That is for sure.
不错，不错...{FirstName}{LastName}，你此行着实表现出彩，宗门决定给你额外奖励。¤Not bad, not bad... {FirstName}{LastName}, you have truly performed outstandingly on this journey. The clan has decided to give you additional rewards.
前方突然传来一股强大的灵力波动，你意识到什么抬头望去，发现正是玄道宗长老莅临。¤Suddenly, a powerful spiritual fluctuation came from ahead. You looked up and realized that it was the arrival of the Elder from the Xuan Dao Sect.
就第一次参加猎魔试炼而言，这个成绩也不算很差了，你总算松了一口气。¤In terms of participating in the demon hunting trial for the first time, this result is not considered very poor. You can finally breathe a sigh of relief.
没想到师兄师姐还有这等瓜葛...¤I didn't expect there to be such a relationship between senior brother and senior sister...
邢兄不妨先与宗门众人汇合，后日若再次相遇自是再好不过。¤Brother Xing might as well gather with the members of the clan first, if we meet again in the future, it would be even better.
“星河剑派？根据衣着想必另外两位一定是金虹剑派的弟子了。”¤Celestial River Sword Sect? Based on their clothing, the other two must be disciples of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
天魔眼里当然只有同门才值得依靠，你这{color=#d0380a}星河剑派{/color}的弟子好生荒唐，凭什么让师兄与你结伴而行？¤Heavenly demon's eye naturally only sees fellow disciples as worthy of relying on. Your {color=#d0380a}Celestial River Sword Sect{/color}'s disciple is behaving wildly. Why should senior brother accompany you on your journey?
一阵笑声打破寂静，众人循声望去，发现高台上的通羽真人抚掌而笑。¤A burst of laughter broke the silence and everyone looked towards the sound, only to see the paragon feather sage on the high platform clapping his hands and laughing.
请带队之人随我前去登记，其余弟子在此等候即可。¤The person in charge, please follow me to register, the rest of the disciples can wait here.
哈哈哈哈哈哈，真乃后生可畏啊！¤Hahaha, truly a remarkable young person!
你极目远眺，只见形状怪异的生僻符号组成了那些光带。¤You look far into the distance, only to see those strange and rare symbols composed of those light strips.
瞧我，咱俩也别道友来道友去了。我叫邢兴星，见道友古道热肠便心生亲近之意。此行前路艰险，届时你我相遇秘境也算有个照应。¤Look at me, let's not just be fellow daoists and talk about it. My name is Xing Xing Xing, and upon seeing another fellow daoist, I felt a sense of closeness due to our shared passion for the Dao. The journey ahead may be arduous, but if we meet in a secret realm, we can mutually assist each other.
你暗自忖思，摇了摇头准备继续方才被打断的修练。¤You pondered for a moment and shook your head, preparing to continue the cultivation that was interrupted earlier.
哎...算了，这种事情我还是少打听为好。¤Ah...forget it, it's better for me to inquire less about this kind of thing.
老头，你知道这玩意儿什么门道吗？¤Old man, do you know the trick to this thing?
听了一旁化尘教弟子的无心之言，本就忐忑不安的你更加难堪。你带着复杂的表情将天魔令出示给计数弟子，视线却心虚地落向一边。¤After hearing the unintentional words of the Shifting Sand Sect disciple next to him, you, who were already uneasy, felt even more embarrassed. With a complicated expression, you presented the Heavenly Demon Order to the counting disciple, but your gaze shifted nervously to the side.
唐森，6只！¤Tangsen, 6 of them!
你粗略估计了一下，自己击杀的魔物应与炎萧相近，便面有傲色地递出天魔令。¤You roughly estimated that the demonic beast you killed was similar to Yan Xiao, so you arrogantly handed over the Heavenly Demon Order.
另外，在天魔眼内获得“灵核”者，皆可凭此与我派驻守执事兑换其它资源。¤Furthermore, those who gain the 'spiritual core' within the heavenly devil's eye can exchange it with our stationed servants for other resources.
不过一群废物罢了，出门历练最后却靠师兄收拾烂摊子。修为如此还是趁早回家种田，明年也能“自食其粟”了。¤However, they are just a group of useless people. When going out to gain experience, they rely on their senior brother to clean up the mess in the end. With such poor cultivation, it's better to return home early and start farming, so they can eat their own food next year.
不知道若是遇上危险你这张嘴能否劝退高级天魔？¤I don't know if you can persuade a high-level heavenly demon to retreat with your mouth if you encounter danger.
“外界传闻这两派素来交好，没想到在试炼之地却表现得并不和睦，看来当真是己派利益优先。”¤Rumors from the outside say that these two factions have always had a good relationship, but unexpectedly in the trial place they did not behave harmoniously, it seems that their faction's interests come first.
哈哈哈哈，不错，不错...¤Hahaha, not bad, not bad...
请道友随我前往{menpai}营地。¤Fellow Daoist, please follow me to the {menpai} camp.
话音刚落，人群中爆发出阵阵惊叹。¤As soon as the words fell, there was an outburst of marvel from the crowd.
你且去问他，别打扰我修练。¤Go and ask him, don't disturb my cultivation.
一阵眩晕过后，你已回到试炼之地入口处。高台上各宗长老负手而立，许有要事宣布。¤After a moment of dizziness, you have returned to the entrance of the trial place. The elders of each sect are standing with their hands behind their backs on the high platform, announcing an important matter.
穿着离火门道袍的修士好像东北方多一点，道友不妨前去查探一番？¤A cultivator wearing the Fire Gate Sect's robe seems to be more common in the northeast direction, fellow Daoist may want to investigate?
此番在天魔眼中的表现着实一般，你感到脸色发烫，只能默默地低下了头。¤The performance in the Heavenly Devil's Eye this time was really ordinary. You felt your face getting hot and could only silently lower your head.
好在并没有预想中的冷嘲热讽，你松了口气转过头来，却正对上长老失望的目光。¤Thankfully, there were no expected sarcastic comments. You let out a sigh of relief and turned around, only to meet the disappointed gaze of the Elder.
（胜过炎萧是没什么希望了，但我猎杀的魔物应当和李青麟不相上下，统归不太丢人。）¤(There is not much hope of surpassing Yan Xiao, but the magic beasts I hunt should be on par with Li Qinglin, which is not too humiliating.)
同门¤Fellow disciple.
李青麟¤Li Qinglin.
照你这么说，以后这青石灵脉就是谁后台硬就归谁，还有什么公平可言？¤According to what you said, from now on, whoever has a strong background will own the Greenstone Spirit Vein, is there any fairness in this?
如果是你要采这灵脉，我技不如人也不会多说什么。可这灵脉分明是那喽啰要用，你凭什么帮他出手？¤If you want to mine this spiritual vein, I won't be able to stop you and won't say much. But it's clear that this spiritual vein is intended for the lackeys to use, so why do you think you should help him out?
这挖出来的东西本就是我们山门所得，只是由我小弟代劳而已，我出手又有何问题？¤The thing we dug out is originally what our sect obtained. It's just that my younger brother did the work for me. What's the problem with me taking action?
我最后奉劝你一句，这青石灵脉自然是强者所得，你们实力不足，乖乖拱手相让便是，别不识好歹。¤the Greenstone Spirit Vein is naturally obtained by the strong, and if you lack the power, it's best to surrender with grace. Don't be ignorant of what's good for you.
在一阵哄笑声中，{ta}转过身去，默默离开了。¤Amidst the laughter, {they} turned around and quietly left.
既然比试已经输了，还留在此地作甚？丢人现眼吗？¤Since you have already lost the competition, why stay here for what? Shameful display?
只见他的法袍已经变得破破烂烂，身上也是伤痕累累，显得极为狼狈。¤I only saw that his robe had become ragged and tattered, and his body was covered in numerous wounds, appearing extremely miserable.
他运起功法攻了过去，但根本不是对手，不一会儿就败下阵来。¤He used his technique to attack, but he was not a match and soon fell defeated.
岂有此理...{FirstName}道友，你有信心打过他吗？¤How can this be... Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, do you have the confidence to defeat him?
这便是你请来的救兵？好像也没有强到哪里去啊？¤Okay, so this is the reinforcement you called for? It doesn't seem very strong, does it?
若真打起来，一个失手…呵呵，说不定就小命不保了。¤If they really fight, one mistake... heh, maybe they won't be able to keep their lives.
…也罢，我去会会他。¤...Anyway, I'll go meet him.
他实力很强，我只怕不是对手…¤His strength is very strong, I'm afraid I'm not his opponent...
我来吧。¤I'll come.
只是我技不如人，让{FirstName}道友见笑了。¤Only my skills are inferior, making Fellow Daoist {FirstName} laugh at me.
若你能叫来比我强的，我们自然转身就走。¤If you can summon someone stronger than me, then we will naturally turn around and leave.
没事，这点小伤过两天就好了，你不必担心。¤It's okay, this minor injury will be fine in a few days, you don't need to worry.
循着{ta}所指的方向望去，只见一群低阶修士毕恭毕敬地簇拥着一人，其境界已然达到筑基后期。¤Looking in the direction that {ta} pointed, a group of low-level cultivators could be seen respectfully crowding around a person, whose cultivation level had already reached the late foundation establishment stage.
{FirstName}道友，可算把你等来了，就是他们。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, I finally found you. It's them.
…你没事吧？¤...Are you okay?
不过刚刚进来的时候，我发现入口附近的杂草都有被踩踏的痕迹。我想，应该已经有什么人先我们一步来到这里了。¤However, when I first stepped in, I noticed footprints in the nearby grass. I figured someone must have beaten us here.
这御剑门的遗迹规模都如此之大，想必从前也是一个了不起的大门派吧。¤The scale of this Imperial Sword Sect's ruins is so huge, it must have been a remarkable sect in the past.
不错，这里确实让我有一些熟悉的感觉。¤Not bad, I do have some familiar feelings here.
听大师兄说，各大门派都有可以进入这里的信物，也许是别的门派也发现了剑灵的异动，派人前来勘察的吧。¤Listening to senior brother, each sect has a token that can enter here. Perhaps other sects have also discovered the abnormality of the sword spirit and sent people to investigate.
老头，可是货真价实一千多年前的遗迹，你多瞅两眼，说不定能在这里想起些什么呢。¤Old man, this is a genuine relic from over a thousand years ago. Take a closer look, maybe it will trigger some memories for you.
一道剑气突然从身后向你袭来，你堪堪躲过。扭头一看，只见一柄魔气四溢的灵体状仙剑正向你挥来...¤A sword qi suddenly attacked you from behind, but you narrowly dodged it. Turning your head, you saw a spiritual body shaped fairy sword with surging magic qi swinging towards you...
你在一片朦朦海雾中迷失了方向，回过神时发现自己已经回到了永安镇。¤You lost your way in a misty fog and when you woke up, you found yourself back in Yong'an Town.
道友所为何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow daoist, what brings you here?
道友请回，星河剑派恕不招收男弟子。¤Fellow Daoist, please return. The Celestial River Sword Sect does not accept male disciples.
大师姐正在宗门广场主持一年一度的入门测试，道友请跟我来。¤Senior sister is currently presiding over the annual entrance exam at the sect plaza, please follow me fellow daoist.
即将开放¤Coming soon.
这里受{SayStcVal=928}所管辖，我这样贸然闯入似乎不太好...{w}{w=0.5}¤This place is under the jurisdiction of {SayStcVal=928}, it seems not okay for me to casually barge in like this...{w}{w=0.5}
要干什么？{w}{w=0.5}¤What do you want to do? {w}{w=0.5}
要去什么地方？{w}{w=0.5}¤Where do you want to go? {w}{w=0.5}
由你和公孙季领头，一众修士徐徐进入涵虚仙府。¤You and Gongsun Ji lead the group of cultivators slowly entering Huanxu Palace.
在宝光的照耀下，仙府外围的阵法逐渐消融，涵虚仙府的正体也是出现了在你们眼前。¤Under the illumination of the Treasure Light, the array surrounding the immortal mansion gradually dissipated, and the true form of the Huanxu Palace also appeared before your eyes.
简单的商量好仙府中的机缘根据各人贡献分配后，公孙季示意你可以打开仙府了。由于凑齐了涵虚玉佩可以给你带来大量贡献，所以你也没有异议，只是转身准备拿出玉佩。¤After a simple discussion, the opportunities in the immortal mansion will be allocated based on everyone's contributions. Gongsun Ji signals that you can now open the immortal mansion. As you have gathered enough Hanxu Jade Pendants to bring in a large amount of contribution, you have no objection and turn around to take out the jade pendant.
为防生变，在下建议还是早些进入仙府为好。¤To prevent accidents, I suggest that we better enter the immortal mansion as soon as possible.
我们刚才在附近巡查了一番，目前没发现更多魔修。¤We just patrolled the area nearby and haven't found any more demonic cultivators at the moment.
你摇了摇头，但慕容颖还是用水系神通为你做了简单的治疗。¤You shook your head, but Murong Ying still used water-based divine skills to give you a simple treatment.
抱歉，我们来晚了。{FirstName}{gongzi}可有被魔门妖人所伤？¤Sorry, we're late. Has {FirstName} Gongzi been injured by the demon sect's creatures?
你和魔修缠斗数回合终于将之击败，但战斗的余波也引来了附近的正派修士，看来先行进入仙府抢得先机的计划是无法继续进行了。¤After several rounds of combat, you finally defeated the demonic cultivator, but the aftermath of the battle also attracted nearby righteous cultivators. It seems that the plan to enter the immortal mansion first cannot continue.
正当你打算取出涵虚玉佩时，一道术法从背后袭来，居然是魔修偷袭！¤Just as you were about to take out the Han Xu Jade Pendant, a spell suddenly attacked you from behind, it was actually a sneak strike by a demonic cultivator!
你想起公孙季在拍卖会后所说的话，觉得这涵虚仙府必定是机会与危险共存的。但还是决定先行进入仙府占得先机。¤You remember what Gongsun Ji said after the auction, and feel that Huanxu Palace must be a place where opportunities and dangers coexist. However, you still decide to enter the palace first to seize the opportunity.
由你和公孙季领头，一众修士徐徐进入了涵虚仙府。¤Led by you and Gongsun Ji, a group of cultivators slowly entered Huanxu Palace.
经过商讨后，你们决定等到结束后再按各人贡献积分分配。当然，你提供的涵虚玉佩也会增加贡献积分。¤After discussion, you decide to distribute contribution points based on each person's contribution after the end. Of course, the Hanxu Jade Pendant you provided will also increase the contribution points.
在场各大家族少主，门派首徒等或是出言同意，或是沉默不语，一时间倒是也没人站出来反对。¤The young masters of various families present, as well as the top disciples of the sects, either nodded in agreement or remained silent. For a time, no one stood up to oppose.
公孙兄所言极是，如今魔门蠢蠢欲动，我们在探访仙府时还是通力合作，减少损失为上。¤Gongsun's words are extremely correct. Now that the Devil Sect is stirring, we should still collaborate closely during our exploration of the Immortal Mansion to minimize losses.
诸位请稍等，我们还是在进入之前商量一下其中机缘怎么分配为好。¤Please wait a moment, before entering, let's discuss how to allocate the opportunities.
在宝光的照耀下，仙府外围的阵法也是逐渐消融，涵虚仙府的正体也是出现了在你们眼前。¤Under the shining of treasure light, the array outside the immortal palace gradually dissipated, and the true form of Huanxu Palace appeared before your eyes.
你发现原本应该散落在储物法宝空间各处的玉佩，居然不知何时因为阵法共鸣而接触在了一起。三块原本破旧的玉佩此刻却是散发着氤氲宝光，一时是交相辉映，令人目接不暇。¤You discover that the jade pendants, which should have been scattered throughout the storage artifact, have unexpectedly come into contact with each other due to a resonance in the array. The three originally worn-out jade pendants are now emitting a misty and dazzling radiance, reflecting each other and making it difficult for people to look directly at them.
你点点头，走到阵前从储物法宝中打算取出三块涵虚玉佩解除护府大阵。¤You nod and walk to the formation, planning to take out three pieces of Hollowing Jade Pendants from your storage artifact to break the protective formation.
{FirstName}{gongzi}不必担心，不过是些落单魔修，料想是刚好在附近而已。¤{FirstName} gongzi, don't worry, it's just some stray demonic cultivators. I think they happen to be nearby.
我也只是比公孙兄早到一点而已。这附近既然有魔修出现，恐怕此次涵虚仙府出世还是走漏了消息。¤I just arrived a bit earlier than Brother Gongsun. Since there are demonic cultivators appearing in the vicinity, it's likely that news of the appearance of Huanxu Palace leaked out.
公孙季正微笑着站在你的禁制前，仿佛你的禁制不存在一般。他的身后站着各大势力的金丹修士，看来都是为了涵虚仙府而来的。只不过有些修士衣衫稍有不整，显然是之前在战斗中吃了点亏。¤Gongsun Ji stood in front of your formation with a smile as if your formation did not exist. Behind him were golden core cultivators from various factions, all apparently here for the Huanxu Palace. Some cultivators had slightly ruffled clothing, obviously having suffered losses in the previous combat.
{FirstName}{gongzi}久等了，在下前来时遇到了魔门修士，花费了些时间处理。¤{FirstName}{gongzi}, apologies for the long wait. I encountered some cultivators from the Demon Sect on my way here, which took some time to deal with.
你想起公孙季在拍卖会后所说的话，觉得没必要先行犯险，于是寻了一地布下简单禁制掩盖气息，一边调息一边等待正派道友。¤You remembered what Gongsun Ji said after the auction and didn't think it was necessary to take risks first. So you found a place to set up a simple restriction to cover your breath, while adjusting your breath and waiting for righteous fellow daoists.
经过商讨后，你们决定等到结束后，按各人贡献积分分配。当然，你提供的涵虚玉佩也会增加贡献积分。¤After discussion, you decide to distribute points based on everyone's contribution after the end. Of course, the Void Jade Pendant you provided will also increase contribution points.
在场各大家族少主，门派首徒等或是出言同意，或者沉默不语，一时间倒是也没人站出来反对。¤The young masters of various prominent families and the top disciples of the sects present either agreed with words or remained silent, and for a time, no one stood up to oppose.
在宝光的照耀下，仙府外围的阵法逐渐消融，涵虚仙府的正体也是出现在了你们眼前。¤Under the radiance of the treasure light, the array formation around the immortal palace gradually dissipated, and the true form of Huanxu Palace appeared before your eyes.
公孙季见状也取出自己的玉佩。原本破旧的玉佩在齐聚后居然散发出氤氲宝光，一时是交相辉映，令人目接不暇。¤Upon seeing the situation, Gongsun Ji also took out his jade pendant. The originally worn-out jade pendant unexpectedly emitted a hazy treasure light after being gathered together, causing a dazzling display that was hard to take in at once.
你点点头，也不多做言语，从储物法宝中取出了自己的玉佩。¤You nod without saying much and take out your own jade pendant from the storage artifact.
不知{FirstName}{gongzi}手上可有涵虚仙府的玉佩。¤I wonder if {FirstName} {gongzi} has the jade pendant of Huanxu Palace.
但还没来得及细细欣赏仙府坐落处的风景，你就已经看到公孙季在向你招手。他的身边已经聚集了许多宁州正派修士。¤But before you had a chance to fully appreciate the scenery around the Immortal Mansion, you already spotted Gongsun Ji waving at you. Many righteous cultivators from Ningzhou had gathered around him.
这涵虚仙人不愧是阵道高手，若不是我凑齐了三个涵虚玉佩，只怕是站在阵前也寻不着仙府所在。¤This Hanxu Immortal is indeed a master of the Array Dao. If I hadn't gathered the three Hanxu Jade Pendants, I might not have been able to locate the Immortal Mansion even if I stood in front of the array.
只见此间三山环抱，又有灵泉从山腰潺潺而下，汇聚谷底渐成一湖。你矗立湖前，或闻猿啸山间，鸟鸣高枝，又见灵气散逸谷间，在阳光照射下如氤氲之境，端的是个建设洞府的好去处。¤Only seeing three mountains encircling this place, and there is a spiritual spring flowing down from the mountain waist, converging into a lake at the bottom of the valley. You stand in front of the lake, may hear the roar of apes in the mountains, the singing of birds on the high branches, and see the spiritual energy scattered in the valley, which under the sunlight is like a misty scene, it is indeed a good place to build a cave.
根据之前公孙季放出的消息，你顺利来到涵虚仙府应在之地。¤According to the previous information released by Gongsun Ji, you have successfully arrived at the location of Huanxu Palace.
道友，我化尘教暂时不便接待外客。¤Fellow Daoist, my Shifting Sand Sect is temporarily unable to receive outside guests.
看来道友是第一次来我天机阁，就由在下介绍一番。¤It seems that fellow daoist is visiting the heavens secrets pavilion for the first time, allow me to introduce it.
这里就是天机阁了吧，好生气派。¤This is the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, what an impressive sect.
道友，请~¤Fellow daoist, please~
而且我们不仅仅买卖宝物，消息情报也是我们的经营范围。¤Moreover, we not only trade treasures, but also deal in news and intelligence as part of our business scope.
同时也会举办各个境界的修士集会，交流修炼心得，交易物品。¤At the same time, various cultivators' gatherings will be held, exchanging cultivation experiences and trading items.
我天机阁收集天下奇珍异宝，每10年一届，举办拍卖会。金丹期以上修士方可参加。¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion collects rare and precious items from the world and holds an auction every ten years. Only cultivators in the Golden Core stage or above are allowed to participate.
看来，已经有人邀请过前辈了，那我就不多做打扰了。¤It seems that someone else has already invited the senior, so I won't disturb any further.
你穿过天机阁大门，身上的天机令似乎受到感召一阵颤动，迎面一位天机阁修士迎接你。¤You pass through the entrance of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, and your Tianji Order seems to be resonating and trembling. A cultivator from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion greets you as you approach.
你穿过天机阁大门，迎面一位天机阁修士迎接你。¤You pass through the entrance of Heavens Secrets Pavilion and are greeted by a cultivator of the Heavenly Machine sect.
前辈不妨都前去看看，说不定大有收获。¤Seniors might as well go and take a look, there may be great gains.
我天机阁收集天下奇珍异宝，每10年一届，举办拍卖会。金丹期修士就可参加。¤The Heavenly Secrets Pavilion collects rare treasures from all over the world and holds an auction every ten years. Cultivators in the Golden Core stage can participate.
看来前辈是第一次来我天机阁，就由晚辈介绍一番吧。¤It seems senior is visiting our Heavenly Secrets Pavilion for the first time, let me give you a brief introduction.
前辈，请~¤Seniors, please~
道友不妨都前去看看，说不定大有收获。¤Fellow daoist may as well go and take a look, perhaps there will be great gains.
这是我天机阁信物天机令，请您收好。¤This is my token, Tianji Order, from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion. Please keep it safe.
看来前辈应该是升至金丹期之后第一次来我天机阁，这天机令还请前辈收好。¤It seems that senior has come to our Heavens Secrets Pavilion for the first time after reaching the golden core stage. Please take this Tianji Order, senior.
你穿过天机阁大门，身上的天机令似乎受到感召一阵颤动。¤You passed through the gate of Heavens Secrets Pavilion, and your Tianji Order on your body seems to have been moved by a slight tremble.
{xiaozi}好胆，竟然还敢上门？¤{xiaozi}, okay...you've got guts, daring to come here?
只见一道屏障，护住了整个天机阁，你几番试探都难以攻破。¤I saw a shield that protected the entire Heavenly Machine Pavilion, and no matter how many attempts I made, I was unable to break through it.
{FirstName}道友，这边请。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, please come this way.
还未行至九嶷山，李青麟便踏剑飞上前来。¤Before reaching Jiuyi Mountain, Li Qinglin flew forward on his sword.
道友止步，沃焦山一带乃我{SayStcVal=928}管辖范围，非我派弟子不得入内。¤Fellow daoist, please stop. Inferno Mountain and its surroundings fall under the jurisdiction of {SayStcVal=928}. Non-disciples of our sect are not permitted to enter.
参见长老。¤See Elder.
沃焦山本就是火系灵气浓郁之地，常有灵兽聚集。和本门弟子之间也算是井水不犯河水，但近来也不知为何，山中妖兽狂暴起来甚至主动袭击本门弟子。¤Inferno Mountain is originally a place with abundant fire-type spiritual energy and often has spirit beasts gathering. Relationships with disciples of our sect have been peaceful, but recently, for unknown reasons, the demon beasts in the mountain have become violent and even actively attack our sect's disciples.
能细说说么？¤Can you explain it in detail?
嗯...倒也没什么，只是最近山里的妖兽都不太平。¤Hmm... it's nothing much, it's just that the spirit beasts in the mountains have been restless lately.
最近有什么异常么？¤Is there anything unusual recently?
（这沃焦山还挺热闹的，我跟上去看看来者什么路数。）¤(This Inferno Mountain is quite lively, I'll follow along and see what kind of person is coming.)
你察觉有两名金丹修士恰逢此时偷偷潜入。¤You notice that two cultivators at the golden core stage have snuck in quietly at this moment.
道友，来离火门有何贵干？¤Fellow Daoist, what brings you to the Fire Gate Sect?
我们离火门招收弟子，不看资质悟性，但对门内弟子要求极严，能成为我们离火门内门弟子的，无一不是意志坚定，一心向道之人。道友若真有这样的大决心，便跟我来吧。¤We, the Fire Gate Sect, recruit disciples without considering their aptitude or comprehension, but we have strict requirements for our inner disciples. Those who become our Fire Gate Sect's inner disciples are all people with strong wills, single-mindedly devoted to the Dao. If fellow daoists truly have such determination, then come with me.
大师兄正在养剑池主持一年一度的仙资大会，道友请跟我来。¤Senior Brother is presiding over the annual Immortal Resources Conference at the Sword Pool. Fellow Daoist, please follow me.
道友留步，天魔眼每隔{color=#d0380a}二十年{/color}才会解开入口的封印。如今时间未到，道友还是过段时间再来把。¤Fellow daoist, please stay. The entrance seal of the Heavenly Devil's Eye only unlocks every {color=#d0380a}twenty years{/color}. As the time has not yet arrived, fellow daoist, please come back in some time.
天魔眼封印所限，只对{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}修士开放，道友请回吧。¤Heavenly Devil's Eye Seal restricts access to only cultivators in the Foundation Establishment stage, fellow cultivators please leave.
道友，来我竹山宗所为何事？¤Fellow daoist, why have you come to our Bamboo Mountain Sect?
我们竹山宗对外门弟子也有极高的要求，我看你还是去别的宗门碰碰运气吧。¤Our Bamboo Mountain Sect has extremely high requirements for outer disciples. I suggest you try your luck at another clan.
大师兄正在宗门广场开设擂台，招收外门弟子，道友请随我来。¤The senior brother is setting up an arena in the sect plaza and recruiting outer disciples. Fellow daoist, please follow me.
这方壶山受{SayStcVal=928}所管辖，我这样贸然闯入似乎不太好...{w}{w=0.5}¤This Fang Hu Mountain is under the jurisdiction of {SayStcVal=928}, it doesn't seem okay for me to barge in like this...{w}{w=0.5}
嗯？慢着，你会青蛇劲？¤Hmm? Wait, do you know the Azure Snake Art?
原来是您就是青蛇真人，授业之恩请受小子一拜。¤Turns out you are the Paragon Azure Snake, I pay my respects for your teachings.
晚辈，不过随意走动，打扰到了前辈，这就离开。¤Junior, feel free to walk around, if I have disturbed senior, then I will take my leave.
前辈真是慧眼如炬。¤Senior really has insightful eyes like torches.
小子，幻雾阵不去闯闯，来这后山乱逛什么啊？？¤Kid, why are you wandering around the back mountain instead of trying your luck in the Mirage Mist Array??
晚辈告退。¤I take my leave.
哈哈哈，不错。你小子倒是懂礼貌，这本《青蛇要诀》乃是老夫当年所创《青蛇劲》的配套功法一并传你吧。¤Hahaha, not bad. You youngster do have manners. This 《Azure Snake Sutra》 is the accompanying 《technique》 to my 《Green Snake Art》 that I created back then. I will pass it on to you together.
这后山多是前辈高人的闭关之所，我还是不要胡乱走动为好。¤This back mountain is mostly where senior experts cultivate in seclusion, so it's best for me not to wander around randomly.
打扰倒是谈不上，本座也不过是闭关结束，走走而已。¤Disturbance is out of the question, this seat is just finished cultivating and will be leaving soon.
行了，你下去吧。¤Okay, you may leave now.
本座出关后，发现有人击败了灵体，倒是好奇谁人能够做到？没想到是你小子。¤After exiting seclusion, I discovered that someone had defeated the spiritual body. I was curious about who could have done it and it turned out to be you, kid.
现在还不到英杰会的比试年份，升仙台附近冷冷清清，没有什么人。¤It is not yet the year of the young hero's tournament, and there are no people around the ascension terrace.
筑基丹嘛，\r顾名思义，便是炼气期修士在突破筑基时服用的重要丹药。若是筑基时若能服下几颗，能让筑基轻松不少。¤The foundation pill, as the name suggests, is an important pill that qi refining cultivators consume during their breakthrough to foundation building. If several pills are consumed during the foundation building process, it can make the process much easier.
适逢英杰会，武陵城聚集着众多炼气期修士，还有不少凡人也趁着热闹一拥而上，将升仙台围得水泄不通。\r¤Coinciding with the young hero's tournament, Wuling City gathers numerous qi refining cultivators, and many mortals also join in the excitement, crowding around the ascension terrace until it's impossible to move.
倪旭欣神秘兮兮地说道，眼中闪烁着按捺不住的兴奋。¤Ni Xuxin said mysteriously, his eyes shining with uncontrollable excitement.
筑基丹？¤Foundation Pill?筑基？Foundation Building?
以道友如今的修为，就安心在下面观战便好。但要是手痒难耐，想试上一试，上台参战也并无不可，不过就是要支付上台的费用罢了。¤With fellow daoist's current cultivation, it's fine to just watch from below. But if you can't resist the urge to try, you can also participate in the battle on stage, but you just have to pay the participation fee.
你好不容易挤过人山人海，总算来到赛场下面。¤Finally made it through the crowds, and arrived under the competition grounds.
武陵城升仙台下，不知何时树立起了一座高高的白玉石台，一枚玉简在阵法的加持下悬浮于石台之上，引得不少人来此围观。¤Under the Ascension Terrace in Wuling City, at some unknown time, a tall white jade platform was erected. A jade slip was suspended above the stone platform, attracting many curious onlookers under the influence of an array.
是啊，看这挺热闹的，也想参赛试试。¤Yeah, it looks lively here. I also want to take part in the competition and give it a try.
而且这功法玄妙非常，我也说不上来，喏，你看，石台就在那里，你去试一试就知道了！¤And this technique is extremely mystical, I cannot even describe it. Look, the stone platform is right there, go give it a try and you'll understand!
那道友还是先听我说说英杰会的门道了。¤That fellow daoist, let me first explain the intricacies of the young hero's tournament.
只不过...甚是邪门。¤However... it's quite sinister.
从古至今，不知多少练气修士为其争个头破血流。作为英杰会的奖品，前来争夺者更是络绎不绝。¤From ancient times to now, countless cultivators have fought bloody battles for it. As the prize of the Young Hero's Tournament, there are endless streams of contenders vying for it.
这位小友，可是第一次来英杰会？¤Is this young friend's first time coming to the Young Hero's Tournament?
我才开始修炼，上台恐怕也不会取得什么名次，不如在台下观战积累经验。等修为提升后，再来参加下一届的大比也不迟。¤I have just started cultivating, so I'm afraid I won't achieve any rankings if I go on stage. It's better to accumulate experience by watching from the sidelines. After my cultivation improves, I can participate in the next big competition.
要知道{color=#d0380a}修为境界{/color}可是一切的基础，除非你有足够精妙的\r神通功法搭配，或是有着各种强大的法宝丹药，或是对某些大道有着独到的感悟，才有可能在越级之战中取胜。¤You need to know that cultivation level is the foundation of everything. Unless you have highly skilled divine techniques, techniques that can match with it, or powerful artifacts and pills, or unique comprehend towards some dao, it is impossible to win in a battle of higher level.
多谢道友指点。¤Thank you for your guidance, fellow daoist.
这本功法要不是困在宁州古迹之中，恐怕也难逃散佚的噩运。¤This technique, if not trapped inside the ancient ruins of Ning province, would probably not escape the fate of being lost.
不过嘛，道友是第一次来的话，还是建议在台下观战比较好。¤However, fellow daoist, if it's your first time here, it's still recommended to watch the battle from below the stage.
你瞧！那可是从宁州古迹中带出来的功法，是古代大能的心血结晶！¤Look! That is a technique brought out from the ancient ruins of Ning Province. It is the crystallization of the wisdom of the ancient experts!
你远远观瞧，台下围者甚众，修士云集，除了形形色色的散修之外，最显眼的便是金虹、星河两大剑派的弟子们，石台旁还有一位竹山宗修士。¤You look from a distance and see many people gathered below, including cultivators of various types, the most prominent being disciples of the Golden Rainbow and Celestial River Sects, as well as a cultivator from the Bamboo Mountain Sect standing beside a stone platform.
哦？不知这是为何？¤Oh? I wonder what this is about?
我武陵城英杰会乃是宁州炼气修士第一盛会，不但可以和其他炼气修\r士切磋交流，若能拔得头筹，更是有{color=#d0380a}筑基丹{/color}作为冠军奖品。¤The Young Hero's Tournament of Wuling City is the foremost gathering of Qi Refining Cultivators in Ningzhou. Not only can participants engage in duels and exchange experiences with other cultivators, but the winner also receives a Foundation Pill as the grand prize {color=#d0380a}}.
还有这种事，老夫我也是有兴趣得很，咱们一起去看看吧。¤There's also this matter - I'm also very interested. Let's go and take a look together.
你可算来了，我和你讲，这次这功法可着实来头不小！¤You finally came. Let me tell you, this technique has quite a significant background!
记得还小的时候，常常听前辈们讲述古代剑修的传说。古时候的剑修们可是真的神通广大，可惜大部分法门不知怎的相继失传了。¤I remember when I was young, I often heard seniors tell stories about the legends of ancient swordsmanship. The swordsmen in ancient times had great divine skills, but unfortunately, most of their methods were lost and forgotten.
愿闻其详。¤I wish to hear the details.
那倒不是，只是很奇怪，就连白帝楼最博学的陈长老都看不出门道。听说他之前为了参悟这功法，整整闭关了三年！¤That's not the case, it's just very strange. Even the most knowledgeable elder at the White Emperor Pavilion, Chen, couldn't figure out the technique. I heard that he closed himself off for three whole years just to try to comprehend it!
不可能！这本书是在宁州古迹的一位古修身上发现的，逝者是一位当年金虹剑派赫赫有名的长老，陈长老自己也研究过，不会戏言，不信你去看看便是。¤Impossible! This book was discovered on the body of an ancient cultivator in the Ning Province Ancient Ruin. The deceased was a famous elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect in its heyday. Elder Chen himself has also studied it, so he wouldn't joke about it. If you don't believe, go and see for yourself.
升仙台上刀光剑影，五行法术纷呈异彩，初入仙门的你只觉精妙万分，一时沉浸其中。修为+{color=#d0380a}500{/color}，心境+{color=#d0380a}2{/color}¤On the Ascension Terrace, sword lights and spell shadows interweave, displaying dazzling five elements. As a newcomer to the world of immortals, you are spellbound by the exquisite display. Your cultivation increased by +{color=#d0380a}500{/color}, and your mental state by +{color=#d0380a}2{/color}.
升仙台的附近人山人海，英杰会的大比似乎马上就要开始了...¤There's a sea of people near Ascension Terrace, and the young hero's tournament seems to be starting soon...
有这么邪门？那会不会是功法有误？¤Is it really that strange? Could the technique be faulty?
小友，你往那边看，他们就是即将上台斗法的修士们。¤Young friend, if you look over there, those are the cultivators who are about to go on stage to fight.
小友竟不知道筑基丹？这倒新鲜，你定是刚进入修仙界不久吧。¤Young friend doesn't know about foundation pills? This is surprising. You must have just recently entered the world of cultivators.
虽然大部分路人不过是看个热闹，但也有不少好剑之人久久驻足，或是比划着某种剑招，或是口中念念有词，试图领悟玉简中所记录的功法。¤Although most passers-by are just here for a show, there are also many skilled swordsmen who linger and either practice certain sword strokes or recite words, attempting to enlighten themselves on the techniques recorded in the jade slip.
{xiaozi}，你也听刚才那人说了，这英杰会是炼气后期修士的天下，还不是你这修仙新手能相与的，还是先观战，{color=#d0380a}五年后{/color}再来挑战吧。¤{xiaozi}, you heard that person earlier, this young hero's tournament is the world of late qi refining cultivators. It's not something a newcomer to cultivation like you can be involved in. It's better to observe first and come back to challenge in {color=#d0380a}five years{/color}.
你看，他们都是{color=#d0380a}炼气中后期{/color}的修士，不少是身经百战之人。面对他们，\r小友自觉有几分胜算？¤You see, they are all cultivators in the middle to later stages of qi refining, many of whom have experienced countless battles. Faced with them, does the young friend feel confident in winning?
顺着方向看去，只见那边一个特殊的看台之上早已坐满了人，他们或\r紧张准备，或胸有成竹，或谈笑风生。唯一的共同点便是他们的气息\r都比练气初期的修士要醇厚数倍有余。¤Looking in the direction, one could see that a special viewing platform over there was already packed with people, some nervously preparing, some confident, some laughing and joking. The only thing they had in common was that their Qi was several times richer than early stage Qi cultivators.
邪门？难道是邪道功法？¤Strange technique? Could it be a demonic technique?
当然，这种热闹事怎么可能少得了倪家大少。倪旭欣老远便看到了你，招了招手，传音示意你有话要说。¤Of course, such a bustling event could not possibly be without the Ni family's eldest son. Ni Xuxin spotted you from afar and waved, signaling for you to come over to speak.
前辈，可有吩咐？¤Senior, do you have any instructions?
你转过身看向他，只见他面带微笑的看着你，但一股凌厉的气势仍从其体内发散开来。这样的气息你似乎在倪旭欣的身上也感受到过，但远没有如此犀利。¤You turned around to look at him, only to see him smiling at you while a sharp aura emanated from his body. You seemed to have felt this kind of aura before on Ni Xuxin, but it wasn't nearly as sharp as this.
此人修为至少筑基后期，{xiaozi}你小心应对。¤This person's cultivation is at least at the late foundation establishment stage. {xiaozi}, be careful in your interactions with them.
一道温和的声音，在你耳边响起。¤A gentle voice sounds in your ear.
这位小友，请留步。¤Young friend, please wait a moment.
呵呵，小友不必担心，我乃白帝楼执事。小友可听说过白帝楼？¤Hehe, young friend, don't worry, I am the deacon of White Emperor Pavilion. Have you heard of White Emperor Pavilion?
我白帝楼是百余年前由九州第一剑修“白帝”在武陵城创立的松散剑修组织，宗门弟子与散修皆可加入。¤My White Emperor Pavilion is a loose sword cultivation organization founded by the first sword cultivator in the Nine States, White Emperor, in Wuling City over a hundred years ago. Both members of clans and independent cultivators can join.
既然小友已经听说过我白帝楼，那我便切入正题了。¤Since young friend has already heard of my White Emperor Pavilion, I will get straight to the point.
我白帝楼乃是松散剑修组织，宗门弟子与散修的青年才俊皆可加入，执行一些针对{color=#d0380a}魔修{/color}的任务或是情报换取我楼中剑术典籍。¤My White Emperor Pavilion is a loose group of sword cultivators, where members from both clan disciples and independent cultivators can join and complete quests targeting {color=#d0380a}demonic cultivators{/color} or exchange intelligence for the sword techniques in our pavilion.
哈哈哈，你若先加入了其它宗门也无妨。¤Hahaha, it doesn't matter if you first join other clans.
对方似是看出了你的疑虑。¤The other party seemed to have seen through your doubts.
小友刚刚获得英杰会魁首，我特来邀请你加入我白帝楼。¤My young friend just gained the top position in the Young Hero's Tournament, so I came to invite you to join my White Emperor Pavilion.
但贡献突出者若仍是{color=#d0380a}散修之身且剑道初窥门径{/color}，便可加入我白帝楼成为内阁弟子，获得我楼内的剑术传承。¤However, those who have outstanding contributions and are {color=#d0380a}independent cultivators with only a glimpse of the sword dao{/color}, can join my White Emperor Pavilion as disciples of the inner court and gain access to our sword techniques inheritance.
这是{color=#d0380a}白帝令{/color}，小友收好。¤This is the White Emperor's Decree, young friend, please keep it safe.
你不必急着答应我，等你有空时，带着这枚令牌亲自来白帝楼看看再做决定也不迟。¤You don't have to answer me immediately. When you have time, bring this token and visit the White Emperor Pavilion to make your decision.
这白帝楼和其它修仙宗门...¤This White Emperor Pavilion and other cultivation clans...
平日里我们会举办各种集会交流剑道，意在除魔卫道，还九州一个安宁。¤On regular days, we hold various gatherings to exchange sword dao, with the intention of eliminating demons and safeguarding peace for the Nine Provinces.
你进入这废弃洞府准备寻找那叛逃修士的踪迹，突然一股凌厉的杀气从身后袭来。¤You entered this abandoned abode prepared to search for the trace of that runaway cultivator, suddenly a fierce killing intent attacked you from behind.
也不知这里是哪位前辈以前闭关修炼时的洞府，虽然看上去破败了点，灵气也不及客栈来的充裕，但收拾收拾倒也是个不错的闭关之所，起码比住客栈便宜多了。¤I don't know whose cave this is where a senior used to cultivate in seclusion. Although it looks a bit rundown and lacks the abundant spiritual energy of an inn, it's still a decent place for seclusion cultivation. At least it's much cheaper than staying at an inn.
正当你准备好好观察一番洞府的环境时，一阵杀意突然从背后袭来。¤Just as you are about to carefully observe the environment of the cave, a sudden killing intent attacks from behind.
趁着年轻还是多出去走走看看，这世界虽然凶险，但也是精彩得很。什么时候干什么事情，待你结丹结婴之后怕是想不闭关苦修都难了，但切记不要乱了道心。¤While you're still young, go out and see the world. Although it's full of danger, it's also incredibly exciting. After you attain Core or Nascent, it may be difficult to leave seclusion and stop practicing. However, remember not to lose sight of your goals. 
否则，碌碌无为一生，待到寿元将尽、临危突破之时才发现失之毫厘，谬以千里。在凡人面前自诩长生的仙人，最后依旧逃不出化为一抔黄土之命运，可就贻笑大方了。¤Otherwise, living an unremarkable life until one's lifespan reaches its end and only then realizing the slightest mistake during a critical breakthrough, is a thousand miles off. Immortals who boast about eternal life before mortals, will still end up as a pile of yellow earth, becoming a laughingstock. 
修炼固然重要，但你要记住，没有人是枯坐修炼就能成仙的。嘿嘿，要是这样，这修仙界怕不是早就是乌龟精的天下了。¤Although cultivation is important, you must remember that no one can become an immortal just by meditating. Hehe, if that were the case, the world of cultivation would have long been ruled by tortoise spirits.
未待运气调息，先前所见的几招凌厉的剑式在脑海中浮现出来挥之不去，你眉头微皱，似乎从中感觉到了从未有过的浓浓剑意，不禁站起身来拔出铁剑，手痒想要试上两招。¤Without even adjusting your breathing, the sharp sword stance that you previously witnessed comes to mind and won't go away. Your eyebrows furrow as you sense an intense Sword Intent like never before. Unable to resist, you stand up and draw your iron sword, itching to give it a try. 
嘿嘿，你倒确实勤奋得很，先前为师有些严苛，错怪你了，你莫要放在心上。¤Hehe, you are indeed very hardworking. Previously, I was too harsh on you and wrongly accused you. Don't take it to heart.
咱们之前一直餐风露宿、寻觅仙门，今日终于到了这修士云集之处，就没有什么想再问问的吗？¤Before we wandered and searched for immortal sects, but now we have finally arrived at this gathering place of cultivators. Is there anything else you want to ask?
想要问鼎那仙家登峰造极之处，必须老老实实下常人不能下之苦功，付出常人难以能付出之{color=#d0380a}时间{/color}。不过，如何合理地{color=#d0380a}安排时间{/color}和付出努力同等重要，至于如何安排，那便要看你的智慧了。¤To aspire to the pinnacle of the immortal realms and reach the peak of perfection, one must earnestly endure the suffering that normal people cannot bear, and devote the {color=#d0380a}time{/color} that others cannot sacrifice. However, it is equally important to properly {color=#d0380a}manage time{/color} and efforts. As for how to do so, it ultimately depends on one's wisdom.
先前那倪道友与邪修缠斗之时，我观你目光炯炯，聚精会神，又是频频点头，想必定是有所{color=#d0380a}思绪{/color}吧。¤Previously, when Daoist Ni was fighting with the demonic cultivator, I saw that your eyes were sharp and focused, and you nodded frequently, indicating that you must have had some {color=#d0380a}thoughts{/color}. 
不过对功法的进一步掌握，往往需要大量的时间，所以功法的选择与学习，需要慎之又慎。可以博采众长，但切不可东一榔头西一棒子，到头来一事无成。¤However, further mastery of techniques often requires a lot of time, so the choice and learning of techniques need to be carefully considered. You can learn from a variety of sources, but don't take a scattergun approach or you will end up achieving nothing. 
对思绪进行感悟，可以提高对大道的理解。而思绪亦有高下之分，越是稀有的思绪，感悟大道的过程越高效，顶尖的思绪乃是可遇不可求的。¤Reflecting on one's thoughts can enhance one's understanding of the Dao. However, thoughts can also vary in quality, and rare thoughts can lead to more efficient realizations of the Dao. The most exceptional thoughts are elusive and cannot be obtained easily. 
不错，其中要领你已知晓便好，真是孺子可教，后生可畏，你当勤勤恳恳，必是前途无量。¤Not bad, you already understand the essentials, it's really impressive and admirable how you can be taught at such a young age. You should work hard and be diligent, and your future will be limitless.
进入客房，感受着聚灵阵缓缓运转，你在木榻上盘腿静坐下来。闭目垂帘，调息静心，东石谷的繁华、坊市的喧闹、初入修仙界的兴奋皆悄然淡去。¤Entering the guest room, feeling the gathering spirit array slowly running, you sit cross-legged on the wooden couch. Closing your eyes and calming your mind, the bustle of East Stone Valley and the excitement of entering the world of cultivating immortals all fade away. 
有时你会获取多种感悟，你当慎重辨别轻重缓急。莫要因思绪庸微而忽略，莫要因思绪妙甚而贪图。¤Sometimes you may gain various enlightenments, so discern carefully what is important and urgent. Do not neglect them because they seem trivial, nor be greedy for them because they are magnificent. 
在这独处僻静之处，你能做的，无非是闭关修炼、领悟神通功法、突破功法、感悟思绪。他们各有条件，耗时也各有差别，你要好好注意安排。到二月赴约之前你可以择一二而行。¤In this secluded and peaceful place, all you can do is cultivate, comprehend divine abilities, break through your skills, and reflect on your thoughts. Each requires different conditions and time, so plan accordingly. You can choose one or two before the appointment in February. 
无论行为如何，都会{color=#d0380a}每月{/color}按主修功法获得修为，而闭关选择{color=#d0380a}修炼{/color}行为时则可以受到诸项加成，修为获取效率更高。\n¤No matter what one does, they will gain cultivation every {color=#d0380a}month{/color} by cultivating their main technique. If one chooses to {color=#d0380a}retreat{/color} for cultivation, they can receive various bonuses and increase cultivation efficiency. \n
无论是想战无不胜，还是想提高对大道的理解，都需博采众长。多学习学习总是好的，书到用时方恨少，说不定哪天哪个不起眼的神通就能救你于危难之间，¤Regardless of whether one aims to be the strongest in battle or to deepen their understanding of the Dao, they must draw from a wide range of sources. Learning more is always good. When you need it, you'll regret not having studied enough. Who knows, one day a seemingly insignificant divine skill might save you from danger.
{color=#d0380a}领悟{/color}就是对神通功法进行研习。它们是修仙路上安身立命的最大依仗，神通功法皆乃各修仙界前辈的心血结晶，领悟它们能以最高的效率提升对大道的感悟。¤{color=#d0380a}Enlightenment{/color} is the study of divine skills and techniques. They are the biggest reliance in the path of cultivation and are the culmination of the efforts of senior cultivators. By {color=#d0380a}enlightening{/color} oneself with them, one can efficiently improve their understanding of the dao. 
老爷爷说到这里，似乎有些伤感，突然沉默下来，向你挥了挥手，示意你自行安排时间，你小心地把铁剑收好，再次盘腿静坐下来。¤The old man spoke until this point, seeming somewhat melancholic. Suddenly, he fell silent and waved his hand at you, indicating that you should arrange your own time. Carefully, you put away the iron sword and sat down to meditate once again. 
请单击右侧{color=#d0380a}闭关{/color}按钮选择行动。\r\n¤Please click on the {color=#d0380a}Cultivate{/color} button on the right to choose your action.
合理搭配功法神通，在战斗时有奇效，你虽初入修仙界，但脑袋还算灵光，好好推敲化演，想必能有属于自己的搭配。¤A good combination of techniques and divine skills can have a marvelous effect in combat. Although you are new to the cultivation world, your mind is sharp. Think carefully about how to refine and evolve them, and you will surely find your own optimal combination. 
不打扰你了，老夫也有些乏了，接下来的时间你自行安排便好。¤I won't disturb you anymore, this old man is also a bit tired. The following time, arrange it as you please.
{color=#d0380a}感悟{/color}即是对获得的思绪进行消化。思绪不在大小，积少成多聚沙成塔。处处留心皆学问，切记莫要好高骛远。\n¤{color=#d0380a}Enlightenment{/color} is the process of digesting the thoughts that have been {color=#d0380a}gained{/color}. Thoughts come in all sizes, and every little bit adds up like {color=#d0380a}sand gathering{/color} into a tower. Every experience is a lesson, so be mindful and remember not to reach too far beyond your grasp. \n
要记住，修仙界中，灵石、神通功法固然非常重要，但对于茫茫众生而言，最重要的则是{color=#d0380a}时间{/color}与{color=#d0380a}寿元{/color}！¤Remember, in the world of cultivators, while spirit stones and divine skills are undoubtedly important, what's most important for all living beings is their {color=#d0380a}time{/color} and {color=#d0380a}lifespan{/color}! 
无论是闭关修炼、还是外出历练，无论是拜师学艺，还是自己摸索，你所做的一切，都各有利弊，唯有{color=#d0380a}寿元{/color}是实打实地流逝了，时光如梭，光阴似水，你要仔细权衡，合理安排，才能觅得长生啊。¤No matter if you choose to retreat and cultivate, or go out and gain experience, whether you become a disciple or explore on your own, each has its advantages and disadvantages. Only your {color=#d0380a}lifespan{/color} is truly passing by, time flies, and light and shade are like water. You must carefully weigh and arrange everything to seek {color=#d0380a}eternal life{/color}. 
还有什么不明白的吗？¤Is there anything else you don't understand?
既然如此，那老夫便再多唠叨几句。¤Since that's the case, then this old man will bother you with a few more words.
哦？不错，看来你从刚才的观战当中，获得了一些关于剑道的{color=#d0380a}思绪{/color}，真是不简单哪。¤Oh? Not bad, it seems that you have gained some {color=#d0380a}insights{/color} about Sword Dao from watching earlier, quite impressive.
{color=#d0380a}思绪{/color}嘛，通常是经年累月灵光一现时，偶有所得，亦或是与人论道时，有所收获。¤As for {color=#d0380a}thoughts{/color}, they usually come to us after years of waiting for inspiration or from gaining insights during discussions with others. we should cherish each of these moments.
{color=#d0380a}突破{/color}便是对已习得的功法进行进一步精进。能显著提升战斗时的效能，熟能生巧，精进功法也会不断地提升对该大道的感悟。¤{color=#d0380a}Breakthrough{/color} is the further refinement of the techniques that have been learned. This can significantly enhance the effectiveness in combat, as practice makes perfect. Advancement in techniques will also continually improve one's enlightenment towards the {color=#d0380a}Dao{/color}. 
{color=#d0380a}修炼{/color}便是专心致志运转主修功法，以最大效率地获得修为。心境越高、环境灵气越浓郁，效果越好，日久天长之下，会对运转的功法产生思绪。\r\n¤{color=#d0380a}Cultivation{/color} is the process of focusing one's mind and energy on practicing techniques to gain {color=#d0380a}mental and spiritual{/color} strength. The higher one's mental state and the richer the spiritual energy in the environment, the better the result. Over time, this practice will lead to deeper insights into the techniques being used. \r\n
醒醒，是时候去{color=#d0380a}伴月楼{/color}和你的新朋友碰头了。¤Awaken, it's time to meet your new friend at the {color=#d0380a}Moon House{/color}.
都已经到二月了...可我还有好多想领悟的功法，要是再多一点时间……¤It's already February... but I still have many techniques to enlighten, if only I had more time...
修仙都是经年累月之功，不差那几日枯坐。¤Cultivation in the Immortal Realm requires years of hard work, a few days of meditation won't make a difference
听老头子一句劝。人生苦短，不先去尘世里摸爬滚打，历练{color=#d0380a}心境{/color}，光凭几卷功法就想出世成仙，那才是缘木求鱼。¤Listen to the old man's advice. Life is short, without first experiencing the trials and tribulations of the earthly world and cultivating one's {color=#d0380a}mental state{/color}, relying solely on a few techniques to become an immortal is like searching for a needle in a haystack. 
好了好了老头，自从我把你拔出来，这怕是第一百句劝了……（倒霉……我到底是拔了一把剑还是个话匣子）¤Okay, okay old man. Since I pulled you out, this is probably the hundredth time I've tried to persuade you... (Sigh... Did I pull out a sword or a chatterbox?)
不过{color=#d0380a}拍卖会{/color}也确实快开始了，是该去那{color=#d0380a}伴月楼{/color}与倪兄碰头了。¤However, the {color=#d0380a}auction{/color} is about to start, so it's time to head to the {color=#d0380a}Moon House{/color} to meet with Brother Ni. 
你在王府内仔细探查了几番，并没有再发现什么特别的事情，便打道回府了...¤You carefully searched the palace for a while and did not find anything special, so you returned home...
你在府内四处查看了一番，没有发现什么特殊的情况...就在你准备打道回府时，一道奇怪的波动引起了你的注意。¤You looked around the mansion but didn't find anything unusual...just as you were about to leave, a strange fluctuation caught your attention.
（可了不得，宁王府的死物竟然也能开口说话吗！）¤(Unbelievable, even the lifeless objects in Ning King's Manor can speak!)
此后你二人便是供奉的贴身小厮了，一定仔细伺候。¤From now on, you two will be the guest elder's personal maid servants. Make sure to serve him carefully.
见过供奉，小的名唤软玉。¤I have seen Guest Elder, my name is Soft Jade.
见过供奉，小的名唤温香。¤I have seen the Guest Elder, my name is Wen Xiang.
（这宁王府起名倒是别致，嘿嘿嘿...就是不知道此女样貌如何）¤(This Ning King's Manor has a unique name, hehehe... but I don't know what this woman looks like.)
这不就是上次在酒宴上遇到的那名美妾么。¤Isn't this the beautiful lady I met at the banquet last time?
你还没从困惑中恢复，就见两个衣着朴素的男子从管事身后走出。¤You haven't recovered from confusion yet when two men dressed plainly walked out from behind the steward.
这么说了，那宁王难道是因为修炼了这《枯木功》，才变成了这幅人不人鬼不鬼的模样...？¤So you're saying, did the Ning King become this inhuman-like being because he cultivated the 'Deadwood Skill'?
按照惯例，供奉初入王府之时宁王会下放赠礼，小的已经把“金银财宝”和“软玉温香”都给带来了，请供奉大人随意挑选。¤As customary, when a guest elder enters the palace, the Ning King will bestow gifts. I have already brought metal and silver treasures and soft jade with warm fragrance. Please feel free to choose, guest elder.
你在府内四处逛了逛，奇怪的是并没有见到府内的其他供奉，莫非大家都在闭门修炼...？¤You wandered around the residence and strangely did not see any other guest elders around. Could it be that everyone is cultivating in seclusion?
{firstname}供奉刚来王府，想见见其他同道也属正常，不过日后也有的是机会。¤{firstname} just arrived as a guest elder in the royal mansion and it's normal for him to want to meet other fellow practitioners, but there will be plenty of opportunities in the future.
你还没从震惊中恢复，就见两个其貌不扬的女子从管事身后走出。¤You haven't recovered from the shock yet, when two plain-looking women walked out from behind the steward.
你放下玉简，又在房内四处检查了一遍，没有发现其它的线索，便小心翼翼地关上房门，回到了自己的住所。¤You put down the jade slip and inspected the room again for any other clues, but didn't find any. Carefully closing the door, you returned to your own residence.
是禁制的波动...¤It is a forbidden wave...
这不是{FirstName}供奉么，原来你走到这儿来了...小的正到处找您呢。¤Isn't this {FirstName} the Guest Elder? So you've come here...I was just looking for you everywhere.
不说这些了，差点耽误了正事，小的这次来找你是另有其事。¤I won't talk about these anymore, it almost delayed the important matter. The reason why I came to find you this time is for another matter.
此后你二人便是供奉的贴身婢女了，一定仔细伺候。¤After this, the two of you will be the guest elder's personal maid girls. Be sure to serve him carefully.
供奉初来王府，当然要先享乐一番才是，不然岂不是我们待客不周。¤When first arriving at the Wang Family, it is natural to indulge in some pleasures before anything else. Otherwise, wouldn't it be as if we were being inhospitable to our guests?
你一头雾水地带着两人回到了自己的居所...¤You brought the two of them back to your own place, completely baffled.
你收敛气息，往波动传来的方向走去。这是一间并不起眼的普通厢房，此时房门虚掩着，似乎刚刚有什么人打破禁制进入了房间。¤You restrain your aura and walk towards the direction of the fluctuation. This is an inconspicuous side room, the door of which is slightly ajar, as if someone has just broken through the restriction and entered the room.
你刚一推开房门，只见一道白影从你眼前一闪，还没等你看清来人是谁，便被一股巨力向后推开好几步，险些跌倒在地。¤You just pushed open the door, only to see a flash of white passing by your eyes. Before you could see who the person was, you were pushed back several steps by a huge force, almost falling to the ground.
软玉温香，还不速速向供奉问好！¤Soft jade and warm fragrance, why haven't you greeted the guest elder yet?
王府内不见踪影的其他供奉，那日偶然撞见的神秘白影，还有宁王修炼的恐怖功法，你隐约觉得这些事件之间另有关联...¤Other attendants in the palace who disappeared without a trace, the mysterious white figure that was accidentally encountered that day, and the terrifying technique of the Ning King's cultivation, you vaguely feel that there is another connection between these events...
地阶木系功法，修炼后虽可延寿，但体内筋脉也会干瘪堵塞，并不利于修为进境...炼至大成后，七情六欲皆已麻木，形体更会干瘪的像是将死的枯木一般恐怖。¤Earth-ranked wooden techniques, although they can prolong life after cultivation, can also cause the meridians in the body to wither and become blocked, which is not conducive to advancing in cultivation... When cultivated to perfection, one's seven emotions and six desires are all numb, and the body will resemble a terrifying deadwood on the brink of death.
你在王府内瞎逛了几圈，远远地便看到一名女子从廊道走过。她形色匆匆，还频频左右张望，看上去颇为警觉...¤You wandered around the palace for a few laps, and from afar, you saw a woman walking through the corridor. She looked hurried and kept looking around vigilantly.
莫非是刚刚逃走的那人留下的？¤Could it be left by the person who just escaped?
有意思，这里看起来并不像什么重要的地方，竟然被特意设下了禁制防护。¤Interesting, this place doesn't look like anything important, yet it has been specially guarded with prohibitions.
王府不会限制各位供奉的行动，想来其他的供奉都已外出，留在府内的也可能在闭关修炼吧。¤The Wang family does not restrict the actions of each guest elder, it is likely that other guest elders have already gone out, while those who have stayed may be cultivating in seclusion.
你捡起玉简，用神识探查了一番。¤You picked up the jade scroll and probed it with your soul sense.
枯...木...功...¤Withered Wood Technique...
你表面上仍是在府中闲逛玩乐，却暗中更仔细地观察了一番，可惜再没有能遇到什么特别值得注意的事情...¤Unfortunately, even though you appear to be leisurely wandering around the manor, you carefully observed it in secret, but there wasn't anything particularly noteworthy that you were able to encounter...
等你再向四周张望时，周围已经空无一人...¤When you looked around again, there was no one around…
也不知是何人这么大胆，竟敢硬闯高手如云的宁王府。¤I don't know who was so bold to dare to barge into the Ning King's Manor, which is filled with many skilled experts.
你不想因为一件和自己没什么关系的事情惹上一身骚，便连忙打道回府了。¤You don't want to get into trouble for something that has nothing to do with you, so you quickly return home.
见过供奉，奴婢名唤金银。¤I have seen the guest elder, this servant's name is Metal and Silver.
真是可怕的功法...想来也只有那些无缘结丹之人，才会靠着这种功法苟延残喘多活一些年吧...¤The technique is truly terrifying...perhaps only those who have no chance of achieving core formation would rely on this technique to barely extend their lifespan for a few more years.
金银财宝，还不速速向供奉问好！¤Metal and silver treasures, hurry and greet the guest elder!
管事脸色一变，随即又呵呵的笑了起来。¤The steward's face changed for a moment, then he chuckled again.
一阵七绕八拐以后，她终于走到府内一处极不起眼的住处，推开门走了进去。你收敛气息，悄悄走到屋外，听到房间里传来了两人交谈的声音...¤After twisting and turning for a while, she finally arrived at an inconspicuous residence within the mansion, pushed open the door and walked in. You suppressed your breath and quietly walked outside the room, hearing the voices of two people chatting inside...
算了，被设下禁制的地方定然是府内重要之处，若是被人发现我在附近，可就说不清楚了...¤Never mind, the place where the prohibition is set must be an important place in the mansion. If I am found nearby, it will be hard to explain...
见过供奉，奴婢名唤财宝。¤Respectfully greeting the Guest Elder, this servant's name is Caibao.
你走进屋内，这里的摆设和府内其它的厢房并无不同之处，只有一枚落在地上的玉简显得颇为突兀。¤You enter the house, the furnishings here are no different from other side rooms in the mansion, except for a jade slip lying on the ground which appears quite out of place.
不错...日后若有要事，便可通过这传音符和我联系了。¤Not bad... In the future, if there are important matters, you can contact me through this sound talisman.
看情形这就是传闻之中的龙脉之力。¤It seems like this is the power of dragon veins rumored about.
九玄大圣的传承？¤The inheritance of Jiu Xuan Great Sage?
这片龙鳞应是龙族先祖之遗物，有机会可以交还龙族。¤This dragon scale should be a relic of the dragon clan's ancestors, and if there is an opportunity, it can be returned to the dragon clan.
不愧是上古龙族，当年所修的龙脉今日竟还有复苏的迹象，这等要事还是尽快回复龙族一声吧。¤As expected of the ancient Dragon Clan, the Dragon Veins they cultivated back then still show signs of revival today. It is best to quickly inform the Dragon Clan about this important matter.
传闻上古龙族掌握一条龙脉用于龙族修炼特殊地脉，看这地脉喷涌的程度，应该即将主脉出世届时有可能上古龙宫一并出世。¤Rumours say that the ancient dragon clan mastered a dragon vein for their cultivation, using a special geological vein. Judging from the intensity of the geological vein, it is likely that the main vein will soon appear, and at that time, the ancient dragon palace may also emerge.
突然龙鳞光芒大方，从龙鳞中一阵男声：“吾乃龙族太上长老九玄，今日我族为无耻鲲族所暗算，此番大劫也不知我龙族能否挺过，你作为我龙族后裔这《九龙引雷决》就传与你，切记大仇不可忘，传承不可断。”¤I am the supreme elder of the dragon clan, Jiu Xuan. Today, our clan was sneak attacked by the shameless Kun clan, and I do not know if our dragon clan can withstand this disaster. As a descendant of our dragon clan, I will pass down to you the Nine Dragons Thunder Calling Technique. Remember to never forget our great enemy and to never break our inheritance.
眼前是一气眼，龙脉之气喷涌而出。¤Before your eyes, there is an aura eye, with the essence of the dragon veins gushing out.
一片黯淡的逆鳞悬浮于空中。¤A dim reverse scale hovers in the air.
突然龙鳞光芒大方，从龙鳞中一阵男声：“吾乃龙族太上长老九婴，今日我族为无耻鲲族所暗算，此番大劫也不知我龙族能否挺过，道友即为我族客卿还希望将此物归还族中直系。”¤I am the supreme elder Lao Jiu of the Dragon Clan. Today, our clan was ambushed by the shameless Kun Clan. I do not know if our clan can survive this disaster. Fellow Daoist, as a guest of our clan, I hope you can return this item to our direct lineage.
突然龙鳞光芒大方，从龙鳞中一阵男声：“吾乃龙族太上长老九玄，今日我族为无耻鲲族所暗算，此番大劫也不知我龙族能否挺过，你作为我龙族后裔这《真龙九变》与《真龙血怒》就传与你，切记大仇不可忘，传承不可断。”¤I am Nine Xuan, the supreme elder of the Dragon Clan. Today, our clan was ambushed by the shameless Kun Clan and we don't know if we can survive this catastrophe. As a descendant of our Dragon Clan, I will pass on to you the 《nine transformations of the true dragon》 and the 《true dragon blood rage》. Remember to never forget this great revenge and never let our legacy wither.
你感受到其中的波动很是熟悉。¤You feel familiar with the fluctuations in it.
龙脉之力？¤The power of dragon veins?
周围四溢着某种能量，但你并不能吸收调用。¤The surroundings are filled with a certain energy, but you are unable to absorb or manipulate it.
看来这一缕残魂，认为我是龙族后裔，将龙族传承传与我。¤It seems that this remnant soul believes that I am a descendant of the Dragon Clan and has passed on the Dragon Clan's heritage to me.
话毕，龙鳞冲出一光团直冲你的识海。¤After finishing speaking, a cluster of dragon scales rushes towards your sea of consciousness.
周围喷涌的龙脉之力向你汇聚而来，被你吸收一空。¤The power of dragon veins surging around you converges and is absorbed by you.
看来你{xiaozi}还真是龙族后裔，竟能吸收这龙脉之力。¤It seems that you, {xiaozi}, are truly a descendant of the dragon clan, able to absorb the power of dragon veins.
突然，周围喷涌的龙脉之力向你汇聚而来，被你吸收一空。¤Suddenly, the surging power of dragon veins around you converges and is absorbed by you completely.
商队出行时会避开相对危险的乱流期，即每年的三、四月与九、十月。因此，大多数船队都会在宁州停靠半年左右再返航。¤When the business caravan travels, they will avoid the relatively dangerous turbulent period which occurs every year between March and April and between September and October. Therefore, most fleets will stop in Ningzhou for about half a year before returning.
请师妹通过传送阵返回星河剑派。¤Please have sister return to Celestial River Sword Sect through the teleportation array.
宗门大比既已结束，请各位弟子随我通过传送阵返回星河剑派。¤Since the clan competitions have ended, all disciples please follow me and use the teleportation array to return to the Celestial River Sword Sect.
{FirstName}{shidi}，恭喜你又一次拿到宗门大比的魁首。¤{FirstName}{shidi}, congratulations on once again winning the top spot in the clan competitions.
作为这次宗门大比的第一，你可以自行选择拜入我派任意一位长老门下,我现在便带你前往大殿。¤As the first in this Clan Competition, you can choose to apprentice under any elder of our sect. I will now take you to the main hall.
{FirstName}{shidi}，恭喜你夺得本次大比的第一。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, congratulations on winning first place in this competition.
我...我没事...¤I...I'm fine...
以你现在的修为，再加上这次大比又得了一颗筑基丹，是时候好好准备一下筑基了。¤With your current level of cultivation, and with the addition of receiving a foundation pill in this competition, it's time to prepare properly for foundation building.
白露红着脸跑下了擂台。¤Bai Lu ran off the arena with a red face.
咳咳咳...可惜，离第一名只差一步...¤*cough* *cough* Unfortunately, I was only one step away from the first place...
白露师妹，你没事吧？¤Bai Lu sister, are you okay?
{FirstName}{shidi}，我派长老一般都在宗门大殿之中，普通弟子是不能随便出入的。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, elders of our sect are usually in the great hall of the clan, and normal disciples cannot enter casually.
{FirstName}供奉，请随我来。¤{FirstName}, please follow me as a guest elder.
{FirstName}供奉，准备好参加比试了么？¤{FirstName}, as a guest elder, are you ready to participate in the competition?
不错，我也是曾经听师尊说起过这件事。据说千年前御剑门因为私通魔门，而被宁州各大门派围攻。¤Not bad, I too have heard my master mention this matter before. It is said that a thousand years ago, the Imperial Sword Sect was besieged by the major sects of Ningzhou due to colluding with the demonic sect.
再加上几个门派间也都是{color=#d0380a}貌合神离{/color}，真要遇到什么危险，大家还是以各自门派的利益为重。如此一来，每一届的猎魔试炼确实都会有人命丧其中。¤In addition, the relationships between the sects are {color=#d0380a}superficial{/color}, and if there is any danger, everyone will prioritize their own sect's interests. As a result, there have been casualties in every trial of hunting demons.
其实能够结成六、七品金丹的，已是数一数二的佼佼者，我派数位长老之中能够有此等机遇者亦不多见。¤Actually, those who can form sixth or seventh grade golden cores are among the best of the best. It's also rare among the several elders in our sect to have such an opportunity.
天魔眼中那些普通的下等魔倒是不难对付，但如果深入到最{color=#d0380a}中心区域{/color}，那些有数百年修为的魔物就不是普通筑基期弟子能单独应付的了。¤The normal inferior demons in the heavenly devil's eye are easy to deal with, but if you go deeper into the central area, the spirit beasts with hundreds of years of cultivation are not something a normal foundation establishment disciple can handle alone.
天魔眼？¤Heavenly devil's eye?
不过{shidi}如今修为尚浅，还是等突破到筑基期以后再去参与吧。¤However, {shidi}'s cultivation is still shallow, so it's better to wait until reaching the foundation establishment stage before participating.
你将自己在御剑门中所见一一说来，但特意省略了剑灵被锈剑吸收的事。¤You will speak of everything that you have seen in the Imperial Sword Sect, but deliberately omit the absorption of the Sword Spirit by the Rusty Sword.
魔气......要说这魔气充溢之地，在宁州恐怕就只有{color=#d0380a}天魔眼{/color}了。¤Magic qi... To say that this land is filled with magic qi, there is probably only the Heavenly Devil's eye in Ningzhou.
你将{color=#d0380a}灵气消散的飞剑{/color}交给大师姐，并将自己在路上遭到剑灵袭击的事悉数告知。¤You give the flying sword with dispersed aura to Senior Sister and tell her everything about being attacked by sword spirits on the way.
如今你已筑基，确实应该好好了解一下未来{color=#d0380a}结丹{/color}的相关事宜。¤Now that you have built a foundation, you should definitely get a good understanding of the relevant matters regarding the future {color=#d0380a}core{/color} formation.
{FirstName}长老有何吩咐？¤Elder {FirstName}, what are your orders?
这柄残剑的造型极为独特，如果我没有记错的话，这应该是千年前覆灭的御剑门弟子配剑。¤The shape of this broken sword is extremely unique. If I remember correctly, this should be the sword that was used by the disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect, which was destroyed a thousand years ago.
哎快来快来，那个{shidi}就是......（低声耳语）¤Hey, come over here quickly. That {shidi} is... (whispering softly)
{shidi}，我们马上就要前往天魔眼了，要一起出发么？¤{shidi}, we're heading to the Heavenly Devil's Eye soon, do you want to come with us?
这些下等魔短期内虽然不足为虑，但若是放任不管，也会带来不少祸端。因此，宁州修士们约定俗成，每隔二十年会打开一次天魔眼外的禁制，令修为相当的门派弟子及散修前去清缴。¤These inferior demons may not be a problem in the short term, but if left unchecked, they can cause many troubles. Therefore, cultivators in Ningzhou have agreed that every twenty years, they will open the seal outside the Heavenly Devil's Eye and send cultivators and independent cultivators with equivalent cultivation levels to eradicate them.
没想到此行竟如此凶险，还好{shidi}你能平安归来。¤I did not expect this journey to be so perilous, luckily {shidi} you were able to return safely.
这灵核这是各大门派争夺的一种重要资源，我们也不例外。所以你收集到的所有灵核都可以在宗门内部换取其它你需要的东西。¤This Spiritual Core is an important resource that is contested by various sects, and we are no exception. Therefore, all the Spiritual Cores you collect can be exchanged for other things you need within the sect.
结丹之时，压缩的灵气越多，最终成丹的品质也越高。高品阶的金丹不但能够改善体质，还可以提升修炼速度，甚至改变灵根。¤During the formation of the core, the more compressed spiritual energy, the higher the quality of the final pill. Higher level cores not only improve physical fitness, but also increase cultivation speed and can even alter spiritual roots.
这剑身的形状，莫非是...¤The shape of this sword, could it be...
下次可莫要再逞莽夫之勇，一定量力而行。¤Next time, don't act recklessly and be courageous, be sure to act within your means.
总之，剩下的事情便交给我吧，我会与师尊商议后再做处理的。¤In any case, leave the rest to me. I will discuss with Master before making any decisions.
当你修为达到筑基巅峰之时，体内灵气便会达到饱和，而结丹便是一个不断压缩灵气，最终凝聚成金丹的过程。¤When your cultivation reaches the peak of foundation building, the spiritual energy in your body will become saturated, and core formation is the process of continuously compressing spiritual energy to eventually condense into a golden core.
你别看几位长老们平时嘴上不说，但心里对这些虚名还是有几分看重的。{shidi}若是能在猎魔试炼中表现出色，说不定还能得到门派内部的嘉奖呢。¤Don't underestimate the elders, even though they don't say it out loud, they still attach some importance to these titles in their hearts. If {shidi} can excel in the demon hunting trials, perhaps they can receive recognition from within the sect.
参与猎魔试炼的都是我们宁州五大门派的年轻弟子，自然是要争出个先后。¤The young disciples participating in the demon hunting trial are all from our five major sects in Ningzhou, naturally competing for a ranking.
据说是因为天魔眼的封印并不稳固，因此要避免太过剧烈的灵气波动。¤It is said that due to the unstable seal of the Heavenly Devil's Eye, one should avoid excessive spiritual energy fluctuations.
所谓丹分九品，结丹之难已远甚于筑基，若想结九品金丹更是难上加难。所以大部分修士在闭关突破前，都会尽可能收集一些可以增加{color=#d0380a}结丹几率{/color}的丹药和秘术。¤The so-called pill is divided into nine grades, and the difficulty of forming a golden core is much greater than that of building a foundation. It is even more difficult to try to form a nine-grade golden core. Therefore, most cultivators will collect as many pills and secret arts as possible that can increase the chance of forming a golden core before attempting to break through in seclusion. {color=#d0380a}This is essential for increasing the chance of forming a golden core.{/color}
{shidi}虽然已入门拜师，但这筑基丹也是极为稀有的宝贝。未来{shidi}筑基突破时若能服下几颗，可以大大提高筑基成功的概率。¤{shidi} has already become a disciple, but this Foundation Pill is an extremely rare treasure. If {shidi} can consume several pills during the foundation building breakthrough in the future, it can significantly increase the probability of a successful foundation building.
至于结丹的秘术则更为珍贵，我派多年来也未曾收集到太多。¤As for the secret arts of core formation, they are even more precious. Our sect has not collected too many of them in the past years.
虽然我们化尘教排名差些，但却没有弟子在魔物手下丧命。¤Although our Shifting Sand Sect is ranked lower, we have never lost a disciple to the hands of the spirit beasts.
{shidi}，上次在天魔眼中受的伤可养好了？¤{shidi}, have you fully recovered from the injury you sustained in the Heavenly Devil's Eye last time?
哎呦喂，你可小点声，别被人家听见！¤Hey, be quiet or someone might hear us!
御剑门的遗址正在九嶷山，不过这遗迹已经被我们五大门派用禁制封印了起来，只有持有信物之人，才能进入那里。¤The ruins of the Imperial Sword Sect are located in Jiuyi Mountain, but this relic has already been sealed by a restriction used by our five major sects. Only those who possess the token can enter there.
{shidi}，何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤Junior, what's the matter?
沾染魔气...这让我想起了千年前覆灭的御剑门。¤Infected with magic qi...this reminds me of the Imperial Sword Sect that was destroyed a thousand years ago.
你说这剑灵沾染了魔气，而我看这残剑的形状也与传闻中御剑门弟子的配件颇为相似，这其中一定有什么关联。¤You said this sword spirit has been tainted with magic qi, but I also see that the shape of this broken sword is quite similar to the rumored accessories of the disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect. There must be some connection between them.
御剑门？¤Imperial Sword Sect?
{shidi}，最近修为可有长进？¤{shidi}, have your cultivation level improved recently?
你先去{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}挑选入门功法，再去{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}挑选符器，之后回来找我。¤First, go to the Hidden Manual Pavilion to choose an introductory technique, then go to the Divine Warrior Pavilion to choose a runic weapon. After that, come back to me.
这剑灵虽然已经被你消灭了，但此事细想仍然有些蹊跷，说不定真有魔道在背后搞鬼。¤Although you have already eliminated this Sword Spirit, upon closer analysis, there are still some doubts, maybe there are demons behind the scenes causing trouble.
见过师祖。¤I have seen the master.
好，若是有要事，除闭关之外如无意外我会随时回复{shidi}的。¤Okay, if there is an urgent matter, besides cultivating, I will reply to {shidi} promptly unless something unexpected comes up.
{shidi}，御剑门之事你可探查清楚了？¤{shidi}, have you thoroughly investigated the matter concerning the Imperial Sword Sect?
此次能战胜地魔你功不可没，不愧是我们化尘教的弟子！¤This time, you played an indispensable role in defeating the earth demon. You truly deserve to be a disciple of our Shifting Sand Sect!
每一次的猎魔试炼都会有玄道宗的长老亲自镇守，所以想要隐藏修为参加是不可能做到的。¤Every demon hunting trial is personally guarded by the elders of the Xuan Dao Sect, so it is impossible to participate while hiding one's cultivation.
{shidi}，我担心御剑门遗址可能发生了什么变动。此事目前还只是我们的猜测，暂时先不要声张。¤{shidi}, I am concerned that there may have been changes to the ruins of the Imperial Sword Gate. This is currently just speculation and we should not spread it for now.
什么？！那个传说中被三宗大师兄一齐救下的名人？¤What?! That celebrity who was saved by the three senior brothers of the three sects together?
{shidi}，此去御剑门可有什么收获？¤Junior Brother, what rewards can be obtained from visiting the Imperial Sword Sect?
这御剑门建在何处？¤Where is the Imperial Sword Sect located?
那是自然，上一届的猎魔试炼便是由我带着其他筑基期的师弟师妹一起参加的。¤That is natural, I led my junior brothers and sisters in the last demon-hunting trial of the foundation establishment together.
天魔眼中的下等魔本身没有灵智，但被击溃后体内魔气便会消散，掉落的{color=#d0380a}灵核{/color}是一种很稀有的布阵材料。¤The inferior demon within the heavenly devil's eye has no intelligence, but after being defeated, its magic qi will dissipate, and the dropped spirit core is a very rare material for formation.
结丹时所需要消耗的灵气数量极为恐怖，只靠平日储备的灵气自然没有十足把握。因此大部分人都会选择在突破前服用丹药，增加自己结丹的成功率。¤The amount of spiritual energy required for core formation is extremely terrifying. Naturally, relying solely on the accumulated energy is not enough for complete assurance. Therefore, most people choose to take pills before breakthrough to increase their chances of successfully forming their core.
本来等{shidi}你突破到筑基期后，也会知道此事。既然你问起，那我便提前告诉你吧。¤Originally, when you, {shidi}, broke through to the Foundation Establishment stage, you would have found out about this matter. Since you asked, I'll tell you in advance.
{shidi}，何事？¤{shidi}, what's wrong?
这是可以进入御剑门遗址的信物，你拿着它，替我去御剑门勘察一番。若真有异变，我们得赶紧通知师尊与各位长老知晓。¤This is a token that allows entry into the ruins of the imperial sword gate. Take it and go investigate the gate for me. If there are any anomalies, we need to quickly inform the master and the elders.
你走到一个安静的角落，盘腿坐下，很快进入了心境空明的状态...¤You walk to a quiet corner, sit cross-legged, and quickly enter a state of mental emptiness and clarity...
{shidi}，门派大比就要开始了，快来登记吧。¤{shidi}, the sect's grand competition is about to start. Come register now.
请{FirstName}{LastName}上台比试！¤Please {FirstName}{LastName} come to the stage for a competition!
今年的大比真是精彩。¤This year's big competition is really exciting.
你从观战中又得到了一些新的感悟，修为{color=#d0380a}+1000{/color}，心境{color=#d0380a}+1{/color}¤From watching, you have gained some new enlightenments. Cultivation {color=#d0380a}increased by 1000{/color} and mental state {color=#d0380a}increased by 1{/color}.
你走到擂台旁，观看其他师兄弟间的比试。大比之上，众人纷纷拿出自己的看家本领，法术横飞，打得好不热闹。¤You walk up to the arena and watch the competition between senior brothers. During the grand competition, everyone puts forth their special skills, casting spells left and right, creating a lively scene.
大战在即，亦能保持心境平和，心境{color=#d0380a}+3{/color}¤Impending battle, yet able to maintain a calm mental state, mental state {color=#d0380a}+3{/color}.
好了，这是你的签，你拿好到台下候着，等轮到你上台比试了，会有人来叫你的。¤Okay, this is your sign, hold onto it and wait downstairs. When it's your turn to go on stage for the competition, someone will come to call you.
（还有一段时间才能轮到我，现在做什么好呢？）¤(There is still some time before it's my turn, what should I do now?)
我们奇珍阁专售各类稀有的特殊材料，道友看看有什么需要的？¤Our Pavilion of Curiosities specializes in selling various rare and special materials. Fellow Daoist, take a look and see if there is anything you need?
要与我切磋一番么？¤Do you want to have a duel with me?
你发现自己囊中羞涩，甚至没有足够的灵石用来交“过路费”，只能转身离去。¤You find yourself embarrassingly short of funds, even lacking enough spirit stones to pay the toll, forcing you to turn and leave.
你佯装离开后以神识掩盖气息，准备潜入城中。¤After pretending to leave, you covered your aura with soul sense and prepared to infiltrate the city.
你在海上早已臭名昭著，来来往往巡逻的守卫便是为了防止你这样的邪修。若直接上岛，必定会被拦下...¤You already have a notorious reputation on the sea, and the patrolling guards are there to prevent evil cultivators like you from entering the island. If you try to enter directly, you will surely be stopped...
你将一个装着灵石的储物袋丢向城门附近的修士。¤You threw a storage pouch containing spirit stones towards a cultivator near the city gate.
在你自以为即将得手时，一股强大的神识从你的位置扫过。紧接着几个守卫向你所在的方位赶来。¤As you thought you were about to succeed, a powerful soul sense swept through your location. Immediately, several guards rushed towards your direction.
就在你即将进入时，一股强大的神识扫过，却径直掠过你向其他位置而去。¤Just as you were about to enter, a powerful soul sense swept past you and went straight to another location.
你以神识掩盖气息，准备潜入城中。¤You hide your aura with your soul sense, ready to sneak into the city.
他也是很自然的将储物袋收入怀中，然后向守卫点了点头。后者也不作理会，一脸平淡的放你入城了。¤He naturally put the storage pouch into his embrace, then nodded towards the guard. The latter also ignored him and expressionlessly allowed him entry into the city.
{xiaozi}，城内大阵被触发了！快离开！¤{xiaozi}, the large formation within the city has been triggered! Quickly evacuate!
{xiaozi}！你被发现了！快脱离锁定范围！¤{Little one}! You've been discovered! Quickly get out of the lock-on area!
就在你即将进入城中时，一股强大的神识扫过，但只是稍稍停顿便掠过你向其他位置而去。¤Just as you were about to enter the city, a powerful soul sense swept past, but it only paused briefly before passing over you and heading towards other positions.
在魏无极出声的同时，你运起遁术迅速远离，总算是避免了一场无畏的大战。¤At the sound of Wei Wuji's voice, you quickly activate your mobility technique and manage to avoid an inevitable confrontation.
你运起敛息术，自身散发的神识波动随着功法的效果被最大限度的降低了。¤Performing the Breath Control Skill, the fluctuations of the soul sense emanating from oneself were maximally reduced in accordance with the effect of the technique.
你佯装离开后找了个隐蔽位置运起敛息术，自身散发的神识波动随着功法的效果被最大限度的降低了。¤After pretending to leave, you found a hidden location and used the breath control skill to greatly reduce the fluctuations of your own soul sense with the maximum effect of the technique.
{xiaozi}你现在声望过低，还是想其他办法吧。¤{xiaozi}, your reputation is too low right now. You should consider other options.
在你即将得手时，一股强大的神识从你的位置扫过，但和预想的一样，什么都没有发生。¤As you were about to succeed, a powerful soul sense swept through your location, but as expected, nothing happened.
还未等你习惯性地掏出灵石贿赂守卫，他已是向城内修士发出了传音符。虽然不知道传音符的具体内容，但一看从城中御剑而来的几位金丹修士，便知局势肯定是不利于你。¤Before you could habitually take out spirit stones to bribe the guards, he had already sent sound talismans to the cultivators inside the city. Although I don't know the specific content of the sound talismans, just by seeing the several golden core cultivators who came flying with their swords from the city, you could tell that the situation was definitely not in your favor.
顾忌到城外战斗可能引来无尽的麻烦，你决定运起遁术，赶在麻烦到来之前离去。¤Considering the possible endless trouble that could arise from combat outside the city, you decide to use mobility and leave before trouble arrives.
{xiaozi}，你被发现了！快离开！¤Little one, you've been discovered! Quickly leave!
就在你即将进入时，一股强大的神识扫过你的位置，然后锁定住了你。¤Just as you were about to enter, a powerful soul sense swept over your location, and then locked onto you.
你在无尽之海的名声不佳，来来往往巡逻的守卫便是为了防止你这样的邪修。若直接上岛，必定会被拦下...¤Your reputation in the Endless Sea is poor, and the patrolling guards are here to prevent evil cultivators like you. If you try to directly enter the island, you will definitely be stopped...
在你自以为即将得手时，一股强大的神识从你的位置扫过，一时间城内警报大作，显然是触发了其中警戒。¤Right when you thought you were about to succeed, a powerful soul sense swept through your location, causing a loud alarm to sound throughout the city for a period of time. It's obvious that you triggered one of the defenses.
就在你即将进入城中时，一股强大的神识扫过你的位置，然后锁定住了你。¤Just as you were about to enter the city, a powerful Soul Sense swept over your location and then locked onto you.
大长老那根万魂幡，据说来之前已经有八千魂，分下来我们只要收集五百魂就够了，现在已经收集了四百魂，再熬几年也就差不多了。¤The grand elder's ten thousand soul banner reportedly already had eight thousand souls before it came. If we can collect only five hundred souls from it, then it will be enough. Currently, we have already collected four hundred souls, and it will only take a few more years.
你们光是布下这拘魂阵，就不知残害了多少冤魂罢。¤Just by setting up this soul detaining formation, you don't know how many resentful spirits have been harmed.
若是一直都像刚来时那么快自然可以，可这收集的速度越来越慢，这都几个月了，一个魂影都没有，再这样下去别说几年了，几十年也抓不够啊。¤If it continues to be as fast as when I first arrived, then it would be natural, but the speed of collection is getting slower and slower. It has been months now and there hasn't been a single Soul Shadow collected. If it continues like this, it will take not just a few years, but even decades to collect enough.
阵法刚被破除，其中束缚着的数百个魂体便夺阵而出，万魂殿的长老们也发现了你。¤As soon as the array was broken, hundreds of soul bodies that were bound within it broke free. The elders of the Ten Thousand Soul Palace noticed you as well.
看来这里便是第二座拘魂阵所在了...¤It seems that the second soul detaining formation is located here...
敢问二位，这大长老现在何处？可否帮在下引荐一二？¤May I ask where the grand elder is currently located? Would it be possible for you to introduce me to him?
前辈若想与大长老一叙，晚辈自当给前辈带路。前辈这边请。¤If senior wishes to have a conversation with the grand elder, the junior will lead the way for senior. Please follow junior, senior.
洞窟内阴风阵阵，只一靠近便感觉到一阵晕眩，似乎有什么东西正牵引着你的神识。¤Inside the cave, there was a cold wind blowing and as soon as one approached, a daze was felt, as if something was pulling at one's soul sense.
哼，什么人？¤hmph. Who are you?
这可是我们……¤This is something that we...
不远处传来了修士交谈的声音，你迅速躲至掩体后，未有惊动到他们。¤The sound of cultivators chatting could be heard not far away. You quickly hid behind cover without alerting them.
自然是劝她就此收手，莫要再残害生灵。¤Nature urged her to stop and not harm any more living beings.
说着，你随手一击便将拘魂阵击碎，一众魂体从中四散逃开。¤As he spoke, you casually struck and shattered the Soul Detaining Formation, causing the crowd of soul bodies to scatter and escape.
这……大长老不是在考虑迁阵吗？将这拘魂阵迁至阴冥海或者幽冥海，若是能敲定一个好去处，顺利的话一年之内便能搞定了。¤So... Grand Elder isn't considering moving the Soul Detaining Formation? If it can be moved to the Deep Yin Sea or Deep Hell Sea and a good location can be secured, then it can be done within a year if everything goes smoothly.
他们二人完全没有注意到你的气息，你就像凭空出现在他们身前一般。¤They totally didn't notice your breath, and you appeared in front of them as if out of nowhere.
你打算先将这里的阵法破除，但还是低估了这些阵法的精妙程度，很快便被人发现了。¤You plan to break the array here first, but underestimated the skill of these arrays and were quickly discovered.
忽然间，那拘魂阵好似感应到了什么，亮起了黑光。几条细长的黑手从阵中飞出，直奔你背后的铁剑。¤Suddenly, the soul detaining formation seemed to sense something and glowed with black light. Several slender black hands flew out from the formation and headed straight for the iron sword behind you.
不远处传来了修士交谈的声音。你稍加敛息，即便走到距他们很近的位置，他们仍未发现你。¤From not far away came the sound of cultivators chatting. You restrained yourself a bit, and even when you walked to a close distance from them, they still did not notice you.
这鸟不拉屎的地方，咱们到底还要呆多久？¤How much longer do we have to stay in this godforsaken place that's literally in the middle of nowhere?
阵中掉落出几块神阴石，你便也一并收了起来。¤Several shenyin stones dropped in the formation, so you picked them up together.
…这位前辈，敢问，找我殿大长老究竟是有何贵干？¤This senior, may I ask, what important matter brings you to seek the Grand Elder of our temple?
师兄，莫要冲动，对手可是化神修士，不是我们能应对的了的。¤Senior Brother, please don't act impulsively. Our opponent is a Deity Transformation cultivator, which is not within our ability to handle.
看来这里便是最后一座拘魂阵所在了...¤It seems that this is the location of the final soul detaining formation…
何人在此？¤Who is here?
此阵法颇为诡异，若是不能破除此阵法...¤This array formation is quite odd. If this array formation cannot be broken...
你对于阵法一道颇有研究，想要偷偷破除这几个拘魂阵法对你来说并非难事。¤You have a profound research on array, and secretly breaking these soul detaining formations is not a difficult task for you.
听着这两名修士抱怨，你心里在盘算着究竟应该如何处理。¤Listening to these two cultivators complaining, you're calculating in your mind how to handle the situation.
唉，真是晦气...本来打算与那冥河水母一较高下，熟料卷进了突然形成的乱流中。幸好附近有船队经过，不然怕是没命回来了......¤Ah, such bad luck... I was originally planning to compete against that deepwater jellyfish, but I got tangled up in a sudden whirlpool. Fortunately, there was a passing fleet nearby, or I might not have come back alive...
罢了，此次不伤你{xiaozi}性命，日后切莫再犯。¤It's okay, this time I won't harm your life, {xiaozi}. Don't repeat your mistake in the future.
呼，这{SayStcVal=928}卧虎藏龙，我还是先离开吧。¤Phew, this place is full of hidden dragons and crouching tigers. I better leave first.
把这家伙打晕再悄悄溜进去，速度得快一些以免他上告宗门......¤Knock out this guy and sneak in quietly, quickly enough to prevent him from reporting to the clan...
哎...也不知道我什么时候才有在宗门自己开辟洞府的权利...¤Ah, I don't know when I'll have the right to open a cave in the clan myself...
明白，明白。我事先都已经准备好了...¤Understood, understood. I have already prepared everything beforehand...
对方脸色一冷。¤The opposite party's expression turned cold.
世间材料皆分天阳、地阴。同种五行属性不同种阴阳表现的效果也会不同，所以要是追求极致便要追求极阴、极阳。¤All materials in the world are classified as either Tianyang or Diyin. Even materials with the same Five Elements attribute can produce different effects depending on their Yin and Yang nature, therefore to pursue the ultimate, one must pursue extreme Yin and extreme Yang.
而且，炼器之道也颇为危险，领悟的不够精深就难以驾驭炼制高阶法宝。¤Moreover, the path of refining artifacts is quite dangerous. Without a thorough enlightenment, it is difficult to control the refining of higher level artifacts.
我没有500灵石...¤I don't have 500 spirit stones...
替我将阵旗取来。¤Get the battle flag for me.
世间材料皆有五种属性：灵力亲和、灵力操控、灵性、坚固、坚韧；在炼制法宝时，若有一项为零则不能成器，同样五维各项越高越好，越能把灵力发挥到极致。¤Affinity with spiritual power, control over spiritual power, spirituality, hardness, and toughness. When refining artifacts, if any of these attributes are zero, they cannot be completed. Similarly, the higher each of the five attributes are, the better, and the more they can fully bring out the power of spiritual energy.
同一组材料在炼制不同武器的时候也呈现不同特性，{shidi}你自己还要多多实验。¤When using the same set of materials to forge different weapons, they exhibit different characteristics. {shidi}, you should experiment more yourself.
{FirstName}长老还有什么别的吩咐么？¤Elder {FirstName}, do you have any other orders?
哈哈哈，那就由我来给{shidi}聊聊炼器之道。¤Hahaha, then let me talk to {shidi} about the refining way.
{shidi}初入门派，不知可了解过炼器之道？¤{shidi} has just entered the sect, do you know anything about refining weapons?
说着，他便从储物袋中取出五面被白雾笼罩着的旗帜递给了你。¤Speaking, he then took out a flag covered in white mist from the storage pouch and handed it to you.
什么嘛，浪费我这么多时间¤What a waste of my time.
炼器是一门将不同五维特性、不同阴阳属性、不同五行属性的材料融合在一起成器的法门。¤Refining is a method of fusing materials with different attributes of the five elements and yin and yang attributes to create a tool.
{shidi}何事？¤{shidi}, what's wrong?
哈哈哈，{shidi}我看好你啊。¤Hahaha, {shidi} I have high hopes for you.
对方脸色一暖。¤The other person's face softened.
世间材料皆分五行，材料之中若是五行相克就需要五行相合的炼器手法才能成器。¤All materials in the world are divided into the five elements. If the elements conflict with each other in the materials, refining techniques that phase with the elements are needed in order to create a tool.
我这里有一本《炼器入门》，领悟之后炼器之道便可初窥门径，{shidi}你就可以着手炼器了。都是同门500灵石就给你了。¤I have here a copy of Introduction to Weaponry. After enlightenment, you can have a first glimpse of the refining way. {shidi}, you can start refining now. As fellow disciples, I will give you 500 spirit stones.
恭喜{FirstName}长老结成金丹，门派里都已经传遍了，以后可要请长老多多关照了。¤Congratulations Elder {FirstName} for forming the Golden Core. The sect has already spread the news and we hope that you will take care of us in the future.
神兵阁重地，{shidi}还是不要多做逗留。¤The Divine Warrior Pavilion is a sacred place, {shidi}, it is best not to linger there for long.
{shixiong}，有何吩咐？¤Senior Brother, what orders do you have?
炼器首先要有炼器室，本门的炼器室你来找我开启就好。¤Firstly, to refine tools, one must have a refining room. You can come to me to open the refining room for our sect.
嗯？刚才那路过的修士好像有点眼熟？¤Hmm? The cultivator who passed by just now seems familiar?
别管他了，我们还是快些回林府给你疗伤吧。¤Never mind him, let's quickly return to Lin House to treat your injuries.
算了，当务之急还是回林府给{$Lin}治疗。¤Never mind, the most urgent matter is to return to the Lin House to have {$Lin} treated.
（在林府休息好几天了，去看看{$Lin}在做什么吧。没猜错的话，她应该在{color=#d0380a}林府长老堂{/color}。）¤(I have rested in the Lin House for several days, let's go see what {$Lin} is up to. If I'm not mistaken, she should be in the {color=#d0380a}Lin Family Elder Hall{/color}.)
嗯？刚才那修士好像有点眼熟？¤Hmm? That cultivator just now seemed a little familiar?
你们也未在此处多做停留，驾驭着法宝回到天星城林府养伤。¤You also did not stay here for long, controlling your artifact to return to Lin House in Starsky City to recover from injuries.
你们离开洞窟时，恰巧一个修士驾驭着法宝如流光般往化尘教方向飞去，没等你们细看已是消失在视野范围内。¤When you left the cave, you happened to see a cultivator riding an artifact, flying towards the direction of the Shifting Sand Sect like flowing light. Before you could take a closer look, they had already disappeared from your sight.
（那种熟悉感...好像修炼的是神识相关的功法...究竟是谁呢...）¤(That familiar feeling... it seems like the cultivation technique is related to the soul sense... who could it be...)
好在那冥蛛追击了你们到洞口后，应该是担心被调虎离山，转身守护那万载冰心石去了，让你们得以安全逃离。¤Fortunately, after the dark spider pursued you to the cave entrance, it was worried about being lured away from its mountain home and turned to guard the 10,000 years ice heart stone, allowing you to escape safely.
你觉得此人声音有些熟悉，但又不清楚何时听过，只是期待着此前击败你的“伪元婴修士”会及时停下手来。¤You feel that this person's voice is somewhat familiar, but you are not clear when you have heard it before. You just hope that the 'fake nascent soul cultivator' who defeated you before will stop in time.
无妨，先听他说。¤It doesn't matter, listen to what he has to say first.
冲虚散人闻言也是一滞，但凝集好的神通显然无法轻易散去。¤When Hermit Chong Xu heard this, she also paused, but the divine skill that she had condensed clearly couldn't easily dissipate.
老朽的徒儿不会...¤My old disciple cannot... 
说的好听，无惑前辈可知你这宝贝弟子此前为了强娶林家二小姐而贿赂栖云真人一事？¤Sounds good, but I wonder if Senior knows that your precious disciple bribed Immortal Taoist Quyun previously in order to forcefully marry Lin Family's 2nd Sister?
毁坏大殿实在是抱歉，但晚辈也确是事出有因才拜访星宫。¤I apologize for destroying the main hall, but I had a reason for visiting the Star Palace.
是你！之前在林府大典上害我星宫丢尽颜面，今日竟然还敢找上门来！¤It's you! You were the one who caused embarrassment to my Star Palace during the Lin House convention before, and now you dare to come to my doorstep today!
你详细地转述冲虚散人在林家的作为，又告知了此前的猜测。¤You detailedly recounted the actions of Hermit Chong Xu in the Lin Family and revealed the previous speculation.
就这点实力也敢来我星宫闹事？¤Are you daring enough to cause trouble in my Star Palace even with just this strength?
宫主！老朽徒儿向来坚守道心，定然不会以邪术突破，肯定是他满口胡言！¤Palace Master! Your humble disciple has always firmly upheld the righteous path, definitely not breaking through with any devilish techniques. He must be spouting nonsense with his words!
星铃儿正想张嘴驳斥无惑真人，但话到了嘴边又咽了回去，吐了吐舌头便躲到宫主身后。这二人身形相似，倒也遮了个严严实实。无惑真人也只得再次将矛头转向你。¤Star Bell was about to refute Paragon Confusionless, but the words died in her throat and she stuck out her tongue before hiding behind the palace lord. The two of them had similar figures and covered each other tightly. Paragon Confusionless had no choice but to turn his attention back to you.
正当你嘲笑冲虚散人时，一位看不出深浅的女修带着另一名大概金丹初期的女修来到大殿，却只是走到一旁，既不开口，也没有动手的意思。¤Just as you were mocking Hermit Chong Xu, a female cultivator whose cultivation level was indiscernible brought another female cultivator who was most likely in the early golden core stage to the main hall. However, they only walked to the side and did not speak or show any intention to take action.
无惑真人一时气结，又因事实摆在面前，说不出话来。¤The expert Paragon Confusionless was momentarily at a loss for words, due to the fact that the situation was right in front of him.
有宫主这句话，我就放心了。¤With the Palace Master's words, I can rest assured.
哼，只怕是他不敢承认罢。¤Hmph. Perhaps he dare not admit it.
咳...你这个伪元婴修士，真是丢星宫的脸，哈哈哈！¤Cough...You fake cultivator at the Nascent Soul stage, you really shame the Star Palace, haha!
哼，油嘴滑舌。虽不知你是怎么快达到元婴境界，但多半是你自恃实力出言不逊，才引老朽徒儿怒而出手。¤Hmph, smooth-tongued. Although I don't know how you quickly reached the Nascent Soul realm, most likely it was because of your arrogant remarks about your own strength that provoked my disciple's anger and caused him to make a move.
小友境界虽有不足，实力却很不错，但在我星宫出手，甚至毁我待客殿，想必不是为了挑事这么简单吧？¤Although your cultivation level may be lacking, your strength is quite impressive. However, if you dared to attack my Star Palace and even destroy my Guest Reception Hall, it must not be just for the sake of causing trouble, young friend.
也巧这栖云真人贪财，上了冲虚的钩，事情败露后落得个思过一甲子的下场。只是没想到丹阳子前辈放了你徒儿一马，他却还不思悔过，以邪术突破后又来为难林家。¤It so happens that the Immortal Taoist Quyun was greedy and fell into the trap of the Illusory Realm. After the truth was revealed, he was punished and had to reflect on his actions for a century. However, it was unexpected that Senior Yang Pill spared his disciple and he did not repent, instead he broke through using dark magic and came to trouble the Lin Family.
哦？只要你的解释合理，本宫便不追究此事。¤Oh? As long as your explanation is reasonable, this palace will not pursue this matter.
你这星宫大长老真是几百年修为都在脸上了！¤Your Star Palace Grand Elder, your hundreds of years of cultivation are truly reflected on your face!
联姻一事本就很正常，冲虚有何必要贿赂那栖云真人。¤It is normal for an arranged marriage, there is no need to bribe the expert Quyun of Chongxu.
冲虚，停下。¤Ascend to the Void, stop.
宫主，我这劣徒哪敢违逆，只是这神通好放不好收啊。¤Master, I dare not disobey, but this divine skill is hard to control.
也不知当年是谁在丹阳子前辈面前灰溜溜地带着弟子离去，还...¤I don't know who left in a dejected manner with their disciples in front of Senior Dan Yang in the past, still...
正当你把希望全寄托在林家的秘宝时，一道清冷的女声传入你和冲虚散人的耳中。¤Just as you place all your hopes on the Lin family's secret treasure, a cold and clear female voice enters your and Hermit Chong Xu's ears.
冲虚散人披头散发的跌坐在你对面，衣袍也是破烂不堪。哪里还有星宫长老的样子，若要是你刚才下手再重点，彻底击毁了这星宫的待客大殿，俨然就是一副衣着破烂的乞丐在废墟中呆滞的画面。¤The hermit Chong Xu with disheveled hair is sitting across from you, wearing tattered robes. He does not look like the Star Palace Elder at all. If you had struck harder just now and completely destroyed the Star Palace's welcoming hall, it would have looked like a picture of a beggar in ragged clothes, staring blankly amidst the ruins.
小友既身怀林家秘宝，想必是深受林家信任，便与本宫一同去林家吧。¤Since young friend carries the Lin family secret treasure, it is believed that the Lin family trusts them deeply. Therefore, come with this palace to the Lin family.
几息之后，又有一位男修急冲冲的御空飞来。一入破烂的大殿便是赶到冲虚散人身旁，确认他只是受了轻伤，而性命无碍，才放下心来。¤After a few moments, another male cultivator rushed over and flew through the air. Upon entering the dilapidated great hall, he rushed to the side of Hermit Chong Xu, confirming that he was only lightly injured and his life was not in danger, before finally putting his heart at ease.
你什么意思！¤What do you mean!
眼看星宫宫主询问，冲虚却只是瘫坐在地，不做言语，也不知是在刚才的战斗中神识有损，还是没有从战败的低迷情绪中缓过来。¤As the Star Palace Master asked, Xiong Xu sat paralyzed on the ground, neither speaking nor knowing whether his Soul Sense was damaged from the previous battle, or if he had yet to recover from the depression of defeat.
毋需多言，先把冲虚押入禁制，待本宫去一趟林家了解情况后再做处理，若冲虚真是用邪法亦或是采补之术，后果就不用我多说了。¤Without saying much, first seal Chong Xu in the restriction, and after this palace visits the Lin family to understand the situation, we will deal with it. If Chong Xu is truly using demonic techniques or illicit means of acquiring cultivation resources, the consequences need not be said by me.
只是他在突破时用了什么邪术就不得而知了。¤Only what kind of demonic technique he used during his breakthrough is unknown.
好了，无惑师徒确实做的不对，小友你也不用再奚落他二人。还是让冲虚自己来说说突破的事吧。¤Okay, the teacher and disciple of Wu Huo did indeed do something wrong. Young friend, there's no need for you to continue ridiculing the two of them. Let's have Chong Xu himself talk about the breakthrough matter.
冲虚的情况的确不合常理，符合小友的怀疑。此事本宫会亲自调查，待事了之后给林家一个说法。¤The situation of rushing to emptiness is indeed unusual, which matches the suspicion of the young friend. This matter will be investigated personally by this palace, and a statement will be given to the Lin family after the matter is resolved.
哼，那事暂且不提。你今日上门打伤我星宫长老又毁坏待客殿可是有假？¤Hmph. Let's not talk about that for now. Is it not true that you came here today and injured our Star Palace Elder and damaged our Guest Reception Hall?
一派胡言！冲虚作为老朽弟子，虽不是资质上佳，但数百年来也是恪守宫规，从未与人强结道侣以双修。又怎会为了突破使用邪术？¤Nonsense! As an old disciple of Chongxu, although my aptitude is not outstanding, I have abided by the palace rules for hundreds of years and have never forcefully formed a dual cultivation relationship with anyone. How could I use evil techniques just to make a breakthrough?
当年在林家我不是你对手，但今日，可不同以往。¤Back then, I was not your match in the Lin family, but today, it is not the same as before.
废物就是废物，之前在林府你不是我对手，几十年过去还是不值一哂。亏得你还为突破瓶颈不择手段，结果实力还是如此不堪。¤Trash is just trash. You were never my match in the Lin House before, and after all these years, you are still not worth a laugh. It's ridiculous how you resorted to any means necessary to break through your bottleneck, yet your strength is still so pitiful.
你这徒儿平日里的为人的确没有问题，但吾辈修士谁不是向着长生而去，又有谁甘心苦修数百年后落得个寿终而亡的结局？¤Your behavior as a disciple on ordinary days is indeed not a problem, but we cultivators all pursue eternal life. Who is willing to work hard and cultivate for hundreds of years only to end up with the fate of dying of old age?
只是冲虚前辈名为元婴修士却实力不济，竟在占据先机的情况下任不是我对手。¤Just because senior Chongxu is named a nascent soul cultivator, his actual strength is lacking, and he was unable to be my opponent even with the advantage he had gained.
以你现在的状态若是再硬接一次神念诀，只怕当场就要神魂消散，陨落于此。¤If you were to receive the soul sense skill again in your current status, it is likely that your soul would dissipate on the spot and perish here.
怎么？刚提起过冲虚多年前在林家的所为，你这当师傅的又忘了？¤What? Didn't you just mention what happened at the Lin Family with Chongxu many years ago? As a master, did you forget?
你只好将残存不多的灵力注入林家秘宝中，希冀着能有一条生路。¤You can only inject the remaining spirit power into the Lin family secret treasure, hoping to have a way out.
事情就是这样。而且经过刚才这一战，我也确信冲虚散人虽是突破到元婴期，但实力比金丹后期修士强不上太多，不然战斗也不会如此胶着。¤That's how things are. And after the battle just now, I'm sure that even though Hermit Chong Xu has broken through to the Nascent Soul stage, his strength is not much stronger than a late Golden Core cultivator. Otherwise, the battle wouldn't have been so evenly matched.
晚辈{FirstName}{LastName}见过两位前辈。¤Junior {FirstName}{LastName} pays respects to the two seniors.
倒是这人来我星宫惹事还打伤星宫长老，我徒儿出手也是情理之...咦？这不是丹阳子的法宝么，此物应该被那老贼赠与他小女儿了才对，为何在你这{xiaozi}手里？¤It was this person who caused trouble for our Star Palace and even injured the Star Palace elder. It was reasonable for my disciple to take action... Huh? Isn't this the artifact of Yang Pill? This item should have been given to his little daughter by that old thief, so why is it in your hands, {xiaozi}?
怎么，连本宫的话都敢无视？¤What, you dare to ignore even this palace's words?
那神念诀的金芒即将命中你时，果然像是撞在一堵气墙上一般，碎裂后化作点点金光，煞是好看。¤When the golden light of that soul sense skill is about to hit you, it really feels like crashing into a wall of air, shattering into scattered specks of golden light, which is simply beautiful.
这就更是冤枉了。我只不过是路过林家时，听说冲虚散人近期突破到元婴，还以为他是在上次事件后痛改前非，特意来星宫祝贺。¤This is even more unfair. I just passed by the Lin family and heard that the hermit Chong Xu recently broke through to the Nascent Soul stage. I thought he had repented after the last incident and came to the Star Palace to congratulate him.
冲虚散人披头散发的跌坐在你对面，衣袍也是破烂不堪。哪里还有星宫长老的样子，若要是你刚才下手再重点彻底击毁这星宫的待客大殿，俨然就是一副衣着破烂的乞丐在废墟中呆滞的画面。¤Hermit Chong Xu sat in front of you with disheveled hair, dressed in ragged clothes. He no longer had the appearance of a Star Palace Elder. If you had just struck even harder and completely destroyed the Star Palace's welcoming hall, it would have been a picture of a beggar in tattered clothes standing amid ruins.
但联想到此人已是元婴长老，这场面不免有些怪异。只是你在星宫宫主和无惑长老的注视下没心思嘲弄他就是了。¤But considering that this person is already a Nascent Soul Elder, the situation is somewhat strange. Just don't tease him too much under the gaze of the Star Palace Master and the Confusion-Free Elder.
待金光散去，却见一位女修站在你身前不远处，若是换个角度就能看到她正对冲虚散人怒目而视。看来挡下神念诀的并不是林家的秘宝，而是这位女性修士。¤After the golden light dissipates, you see a female cultivator standing not far in front of you. If you look from a different angle, you can see that she is facing the hermit Chong Xu with a fierce gaze. It seems that it was not the Lin family's secret treasure that blocked the Soul Sense Skill, but this female cultivator.
而且应该就是刚才要求冲虚散人停手的那位。¤And it should be the person who just asked Hermit Chong Xu to stop.
冲虚散人面如死灰，无惑真人也是面露讶色，强大女修却是嘴角略微上扬，一副很感兴趣的样子，而星铃儿只是好笑的看着你，也不知她在想什么。¤Hermit Chong Xu had a deadpan expression, while Paragon Confusionless showed surprise. The powerful female cultivator, however, had a slight upturn of the lips, appearing very interested. Meanwhile, Star Bell just looked at you with a smile, and it's unknown what she was thinking.
眼看星宫宫主询问，冲虚散人满脸愤懑，但事到如今也不敢临时编制出个谎言来，只得沉默不语。¤As the star palace master looked on and asked, the hermit Chong Xu's face was full of anger, but at this point, he dared not make up a lie on the spot and could only remain silent.
若换做是无惑你寿元将尽，且无法突破瓶颈，又会作何选择呢？¤If it were you, with a limited lifespan and unable to make a breakthrough, what choice would you make?
冲虚散人面如死灰，无惑真人也是面露讶色，强大女修却是嘴角略微上扬，一副很感兴趣的样子，而个金丹期女修，一副不是很感兴趣的样子，不知在思考什么。¤Hermit Chong Xu's face was ashen, while Paragon Confusionless looked surprised. The powerful female cultivator had a slightly upturned mouth, appearing very interested, while the female cultivator at the Golden Core level appeared uninterested, pondering something.
宫主，这...¤Master, this...
那被称为宫主的女修没再开口说什么，而是转过身来看着你，像是等着你解释。¤The female cultivator known as the Palace Lord didn't say anything else but turned around to look at you, seeming to wait for your explanation.
实不相瞒，晚辈正是受林家之托来此。¤To be honest, this junior came here under the request of the Lin family.
正当你嘲笑冲虚散人时，一位看不出深浅的女修带着星铃儿来到大殿，却只是在旁看着，也不言语，倒是星铃儿一副很感兴趣的样子。¤Just as you were laughing at Hermit Chong Xu, a female cultivator of indeterminate level arrived at the main hall with Star Bell, but only watched from the side without speaking, while Star Bell seemed very interested.
事情就是这样。而且经过刚才这一战，我也确信冲虚散人虽是突破到元婴期，但实力甚至不如一般的金丹后期修士，乃形神俱伤之相，符合我的猜测。¤The situation is like this. And after the battle just now, I am certain that although Hermit Chong Xu has broken through to the Nascent Soul stage, his strength is not even comparable to that of an ordinary cultivator in the late Golden Core stage, with both his physical body and spiritual essence severely damaged, which is in line with my speculation.
当年害星宫丢尽颜面的是谁，你心里没数么？居然还厚颜无耻的怪罪到我头上？¤Who brought shame to Star Palace back then, don't you know? Yet, you shamelessly blame me?
不过他冲虚散人好不容易到了元婴前期，却败在你一个晚辈手里，换做是其他人怕也是难以接受。更不用说你还曾为林家出头，坏了他的奸计，对你早已是怀恨在心。两者相合之下，对他的打击之大更是不言而喻。¤However, the fact that he, Hermit Chong Xu, barely reached the Nascent Soul stage and was defeated by a junior like you is hard to accept. Especially considering you had previously interfered in Lin Family's affairs and ruined his scheme, he has long held a grudge against you. The combination of these factors is undoubtedly a massive blow to him.
哼，只怕是用了采补之术，再以潜力为代价强行突破了瓶颈。¤Hmph, I'm afraid they used the method of acquiring and swallowing treasures to forcefully breakthrough their bottleneck at the cost of their potential.
冲虚散人原本苍白的面庞尽在暴怒之下涨得通红，严重更是金芒吞吐，下一发神念诀俨然已是在蕴量之中，随时都有可能出手。¤The hermit Chong Xu's originally pale face turned red with anger, and his eyes emitted golden light. The next attack with the soul sense skill was already brewing within him, and he was ready to strike at any moment.
不过他冲虚散人好不容易到元婴前期，却败在你一个晚辈手里，换做是其他人怕也是难以接受。更不用说你还曾为林家出头，坏了他的奸计，对你早已是怀恨在心。两者相合之下，对他的打击之大更是不言而喻。¤However, as a hermit named Chong Xu, he finally reached the nascent soul early stage, but was defeated by a junior like you. If it was someone else, they may not have accepted it. Not to mention, you have previously stood up for the Lin family and ruined his sinister plan, causing him to already harbor hatred towards you. With these two factors combined, the impact on him is self-evident.
道友是何人？何故来我星宫伤人？¤Who is the fellow daoist? Why did you come to my star palace and hurt people?
以我的修为境界，没在数合内被元婴修士击杀都已是万幸，怎敢自恃实力出言不逊？¤With my level of cultivation, it would be fortunate if I were not killed by a nascent soul cultivator during a skirmish. How could I possibly be arrogant and speak without restraint?
只得从怀中掏出用于掩盖自身气息的林家秘宝，寄希望于此物除掩盖气息外还有其他功效。¤I had to take out the Lin family secret treasure from my pocket to conceal my own aura, hoping that besides concealing my aura, it also had other effects.
咳咳...看来是我高估自己了，但我可没低估你冲虚散人。就你这点实力，可不是元婴修士的水准。¤Cough cough... It seems that I have overestimated myself, but I haven't underestimated you, Hermit Chong Xu. With your current level of strength, you aren't on par with a Nascent Soul Cultivator.
没成想这冲虚一见是我，就驱动神通攻将上来，打我一个措手不及。¤Unexpectedly, as soon as he saw me, he used his divine skill to attack me, catching me off guard.
呵，还不是冲虚散人寿元无多，丹阳子前辈膝下两女又都是资质上乘，他便是打起了靠双修秘术突破的主意。¤Huh, it's all because Hermit Chong Xu has a limited lifespan and Senior Dan Yangzi's two daughters both have outstanding aptitude, that he came up with the idea of relying on the dual cultivation secret technique to make a breakthrough.
几回合过后你终于是抵挡不住冲虚散人的神念诀。正面受一击后，只觉神魂震荡不停，随之而来的剧痛充满了你的意识，身体更是一软而后跌坐在地。¤After a few rounds, you finally couldn't resist the Hermit Chong Xu's Soul Sense Skill. After being hit head-on, your soul trembled incessantly and the following intense pain filled your awareness. Your body also went limp and then fell to the ground.
宫主！我徒儿只是一时糊涂才贿赂林家长老，但绝然不会以邪术突破！肯定是他满口胡言。¤Palace Lord! My apprentice was just momentarily confused when he bribed the Lin family elder, but he absolutely did not use evil techniques to break through! It must be that he was speaking nonsense.
你将藏于衣袍内的林家秘宝收入储物袋中，展现出自己的真实实力。¤You will store the Lin family secret treasure hidden in your robe into a storage pouch, revealing your true power.
我日前路过林家，听说星宫冲虚长老晋升元婴期，特意来星宫祝贺。只是没想到这冲虚长老竟是一言不合就与我动起手来，怎能说是我来星宫伤人呢？¤I passed by the Lin family recently and heard that the elder in charge of the Star Palace's Illusionary Void has advanced to the Nascent Soul stage. I came to the Star Palace to offer my congratulations. However, I didn't expect that this elder would become violent and attack me at the slightest provocation. How could I be blamed for coming to the Star Palace and injuring someone?
他骂你厚颜无耻呢。¤He scolded you for being shameless.
大胆，哪有你多嘴的份！¤Bold, you have no right to be so talkative!
手下败将还敢在这大放厥词，我这就让你永远闭嘴。¤The defeated underling still dares to speak arrogantly here. I will shut you up forever.
你适时将藏于衣袍内的林家秘宝收入储物袋中，展现出自己的真实实力。¤You timely put the Lin family secret treasure hidden in your clothes into the storage pouch, revealing your true strength.
哈哈哈，前辈想多了。¤Hahaha, Senior is overthinking.
星铃儿正想张嘴驳斥无惑真人，但话到了嘴边又咽了回去，吐了吐舌头便躲到宫主身后。这二人身形相似，倒也遮了个严严实实。¤Star Bell was about to open her mouth to refute Paragon Confusionless, but she stopped herself and tucked her tongue behind her and hid behind the Palace Lord. These two people had similar figures, which made them well-concealed.
大胆，哪轮得到你妄加揣测！¤Bold, who do you think you are to make wild guesses about me!
星铃儿正想张嘴驳斥无惑真人，但话到了嘴边又咽了回去，吐了吐舌头便躲到宫主身后。正巧这二人身形相似，倒也遮了个严严实实。无惑真人只得再次将矛头转向你。¤Star Bell was about to refute Paragon Confusionless, but her words were stuck in her throat. She stuck out her tongue and then hid behind the Palace Lord. Coincidentally, their figures were similar, which covered her up well. Paragon Confusionless had to turn his spearhead towards you once again.
当年你徒儿要当众格杀我这晚辈时，没见你加以阻拦。今日我击败他，你却又在此饶舌。¤Back then, when your disciple wanted to publicly execute me, you didn't stop him. Today, when I defeated him, you're here talking nonsense again.
只见冲虚散人神情狰狞，耀眼的神念金芒已是裹挟着死亡的气息向你急速迫近。¤I saw the hermit Chong Xu's ferocious expression as his dazzling golden spiritual intent approached rapidly with the aura of death.
前辈想多了。¤Senior is overthinking.
冲虚道友嘴上功夫不错，但手底下的战斗力还是不太行啊。不过废物嘛，就是这样了。¤Chong Xu fellow daoist talks big, but their combat strength is lacking. But being trash, that's just how it is.
哼，油嘴滑舌，道友怕不是自恃实力而出言不逊，才引老朽徒儿怒而出手。¤Hmph. Smooth-talking and slick-tongued, fellow daoist might be speaking disrespectfully thinking they have the strength to back it up, which provoked this old man's disciple into anger and action.
想起当年林沐心也可能是凭借此物才对栖云真人造成大量麻烦，乃至令其受伤不浅，你又坚定了几分。¤Remembering that Lin Muxin may have caused a lot of trouble for Immortal Taoist Quyun with this thing in the past, even causing him considerable injuries, you became more determined.
于此同时一位年轻女修低着头缓步走到宫主身后站定，也是一言不发。而那冲虚则是安静地站在自己师父无惑真人的身后，一副淡然的样子，似乎刚才违抗宫主命令的不是他。¤Meanwhile, a young female cultivator walked slowly behind the Palace Master with her head down and stood still, without saying a word. As for Chongxu, he stood quietly behind his master, the Paragon Confusionless, looking indifferent as if he was not the one who had just disobeyed the Palace Master's command.
（不好，他没有停手的意思，只怕是想先动手再说。）{vpunch=10,0.5}¤(Not good, he doesn't seem to have any intention of stopping, he probably wants to act first and talk later.) {vpunch=10,0.5}
好了，无惑师徒确实做的不对，小友你也不用再奚落他二人了。还是让冲虚自己来说说突破的事吧。有此事？¤Okay, it's true that the master and apprentice of Wu Huo did something wrong. Young friend, you don't need to ridicule them anymore. Let's have Chong Xu himself talk about the breakthrough. Is there something like this?
解决了...回风雨楼领赏吧...¤Resolved...go claim your reward at the Returning Wind Storm Manor...
风雨楼令牌微微颤抖。¤Storm Manor token slightly trembles.
你不是此人对手，但索性遁速略胜一筹，这才得以狼狈的逃离了此地。¤You are not this person's match, but fortunately your speed was slightly faster, which allowed you to escape this place in a hurry.
道友可曾听说过阴冥泉？¤Fellow daoist, have you ever heard of the Deep Yin Spring?
我还未曾听闻将七彩月兰与腐骨灵花一同入药的，你收集这两种草药做什么？¤I have never heard of combining rainbow moon orchid and earth matriarch petal as medicine, why are you collecting these two herbs?
草药我已经都给你带来了，按照约定，你必须把秘方一起告诉我。¤I already brought all the herbs for you, according to our agreement, you must tell me the secret recipe.
老夫会在南崖城的客栈等你，但如果在此之前我就收集到了足够的草药，那这些灵石可就是别人的了。¤I will wait for you at the inn in South Cliff City, but if I collect enough herbs before that, then these spirit stones will belong to someone else.
我的确能帮你弄到这两种草药，但我想交换的并不是你的灵石。¤I can indeed help you get these two herbs, but what I want in exchange are not your spirit stones.
听这名字，似乎和阴冥海有关？¤From hearing this name, it seems to be related to the Deep Yin Sea?
或者你也可以去坊市或者拍卖行碰碰运气，我不管你用什么方式，把东西带来就行。¤Alternatively, you can try your luck at the marketplace or auction house. I don't care which method you choose, just bring the goods.
这秘方原本老夫不打算外传，但若是你能一次性拿出3株腐骨灵花与3株七彩月兰给我的话，这秘方和18万的灵石就都归你了。¤The secret recipe was originally not intended to be passed on, but if you can give me 3 earth matriarch petals and 3 rainbow moon orchids at once, the secret recipe and 180,000 spirit stones will all belong to you.
不错，不错...这些总算是够了。¤Not bad, not bad... Finally, these are enough.
我这里恰好就有这两种草药，按你说好的价，一株四万灵石，它们就是你的了。¤I happen to have both of these herbs here. According to the price you agreed on, they will be yours for 40,000 spirit stones per plant.
我要的东西你带来了么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Have you brought me what I asked for? {w}{w=0.5}
阴冥，玄冥与幽冥三海，皆位于南方极阴之地，但论阴气最重则当以阴冥海为首，而这极阴之水也只能在阴冥海的部分岛屿上找到。¤The three seas of Deep Yin, Xuanming, and Youming are all located in the land of extreme yin in the south. However, when it comes to the heaviest Yin energy, Deep Yin Sea should be the first. The water of extreme yin can only be found on some islands in Deep Yin Sea.
道友还有何事？¤Fellow daoist, what else do you need?
这腐骨灵花有养魂之药性，而七彩月兰则有清心之药性，二者皆为性寒之药，本就生长于极寒极阴之地，经过这阴冥泉水的泡发一日后，能够最大程度发挥其药效。¤The earth matriarch petal has the medicine property of soulbuilding, while the rainbow moon orchid has the medicine property of calming. Both are cold medicines that naturally grow in extremely cold and yin lands. After being soaked in the water from the deep yin spring for a day, they can maximize their medicinal effects.
不错，这阴冥泉实质上是极阴之气凝聚到极致后液化的表现。¤Not bad, this deep yin spring is essentially the manifestation of extremely condensed yin qi that has liquefied.
好吧，我的确急需不少数量的草药...¤Okay... I do urgently need a considerable amount of herbs...
如果你这里还有多余的草药，老夫我还是用这个价收。¤If you still have extra herbs here, I will still buy them at this price.
老夫正在收集五品仙草七彩月兰与腐骨灵花，道友这里若是有的话，老夫愿用每株40000灵石的高价收购。{w}{w=0.5}¤I am currently collecting fifth-grade immortal herbs, rainbow moon orchids, and earth matriarch petals. Fellow daoist, if you have any, I am willing to purchase each plant for a high price of 40,000 spirit stones. {w}{w=0.5}
（若真有如此奇效，那也确实值得冒险去那阴冥海一探了。）¤(If it really has such miraculous effects, then it's worth taking the risk to explore the deep yin sea.)
这腐骨灵花乃五品仙草，生长在极阴之地。我听说，只有在幽冥海的一些岛屿上才能找到这种草药。¤This Earth Matriarch Petal is a fifth-grade immortal herb, grown in extremely dark and cold lands. I've heard that this kind of herb can only be found on some islands in the underworld sea.
若是你能将你收集这两种草药的目的告诉我，我可以用更便宜的价格把它们出让给你。¤If you can tell me the purpose of your collection of these two herbs, I can sell them to you at a cheaper price.
（提防地看着你）道友何故要问这么多，若是没有的话就别在这里妨碍老夫了。¤(Guardedly watching you) Fellow Daoist, why do you ask so many questions? If you don't have any business here, don't obstruct me.
这七彩月兰极为神秘，只有在月圆之时才会开花，平日里若不仔细观察则与寻常杂草无异。我听说，只有在吞云海的一些岛屿上才能找到这种草药。¤The Rainbow Moon Orchid is extremely mysterious, and only blooms during a full moon. Without careful observation, it appears to be just ordinary weeds. I have heard that this herb can only be found on some islands in the Swallowing Cloud Sea.
如果你这里还有七彩月兰与腐骨灵花，老夫我还是用这个价收。¤If you still have Rainbow Moon Orchids and Earth Matriarch Petals here, I will still buy them at this price.
哈哈哈哈哈，老夫言而有信，这里是八万灵石，拿去吧。¤Hahaha, this old man keeps his word. Here are eighty thousand spirit stones, take them.
只需用这吸收了药性后的灵水擦拭双目，便有提神清目的奇效。如此往复三到四次，甚至能够让双目练就一些想象不到的奇妙瞳术。¤Simply use the spiritual water that has absorbed medicinal properties to wipe your eyes, and it has a miraculous effect of refreshing and brightening the eyes. Repeat this process three to four times, and it can even allow the eyes to cultivate some incredible and unimaginable eye techniques.
眼前之人在你的感知之下，似是一座即将喷发的火山，内里炙热翻涌表面气息却是静若止水。¤The person in front of you, in your perception, seems like a volcano about to erupt, with internal heat churning violently but on the surface, their aura is as still as water.
我虽是久居麟庙之内，但对你也是早有耳闻。不论是外门大比夺得魁首，还是天魔眼为门争光，称得上我离火门的栋梁之材。¤Although I have long dwelled within the Lin Temple, I have also heard of you. Whether it be winning the top spot in the Outer Sect's Great Competition or bringing glory to our Fire Gate Sect with the Heavenly Devil's Eye, you can be considered a pillar of our sect.
最近虽是风平浪静，但我总觉得心神不宁，{shidi}你还是路上多多留心。¤Recently, although there have been no major disturbances, I always feel uneasy. {shidi}, you should be careful on your travels.
此剑本是我闲暇时的练手之作，就先借给{shidi}防身吧。¤This sword was just something I made in my spare time, I'll lend it to {shidi} for self-defense.
{FirstName}{shidi}，你最近是见不到家师了。自我接手绝焰堂之后，唉，师尊倒是也放心把这里里外外的事情都交给我。¤{FirstName}{shidi}, you haven't been able to see Master recently. Since I took over Jueyan Hall, sigh, Master seems to be at ease with letting me handle everything inside and out.
你察觉到对方似是苦笑一下。¤You notice the other person seems to give a wry smile.
你搞错了，炎麟大圣乃是家师，目前在外云游。在下绝焰堂大长老钟焰。¤You are mistaken, Blaze Unicorn Sage is my teacher and is currently traveling. I am Zhong Yan, the Grand Elder of Absolute Flame Hall.
嗯？还有嘱咐？¤Hmm? Any more instructions?
也许是我多心了，{shidi}不要嫌我烦就好。¤Maybe I'm just being overly sensitive, {shidi} please don't be annoyed by me.
以你的炼器造诣，也是察觉了一丝不对。¤With your refining expertise, you have also noticed something amiss.
{FirstName}{shidi}，客气了。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, you're too polite.
化尘教来信，此次交易由恒如真人负责，你到了化尘教他应会接待你。¤Shifting Sand Sect's letter, this trade will be handled by Paragon Eternal Harmony, when you arrive at Shifting Sand Sect he should receive you.
眼前之人你在他身上感受不到任何灵气波动好似一个凡人。¤The person in front of you does not seem to have any spiritual energy fluctuations on him, as if he were an ordinary person.
只见他一掐法诀，一柄赤红的飞剑从一旁的墙上向你飞来。剑身上炙热的波动，让你明白这至少是柄上品法宝。¤I saw him form a hand seal, and a crimson flying sword flew towards me from the nearby wall. The scorching waves emanating from the sword's blade made me realize that this was at least a high-tier artifact.
是这样的，最近化尘教向我门求购一批火麟玉，我想劳烦{shidi}运送此物。¤It's like this, recently the Shifting Sand Sect has requested to purchase a batch of Fire-Lynx Jade from our sect. I would like to trouble {shidi} to transport this item.
我虽是久居麟庙之内，但对你也是早有耳闻，外门大比夺得魁首之时我就很看好你。¤Although I have long resided within the Lin Temple, I have also long heard of you. When you won first place in the outer sect competition, I had high hopes for you.
我就知道{shidi}你不会推辞，这个储物袋就是火麟玉。¤I knew {shidi} you wouldn't refuse, this storage pouch contains the Fire-Lynx Jade.
嗯...化尘教近年来不与各派联络，突然找我离火门求购火麟玉，总感觉蹊跷的很。¤Well... the Shifting Sand Sect has not been in contact with other factions lately, suddenly they approached Fire Gate Sect to purchase Fire-Lynx Jade, it feels suspicious.
原来是钟长老当面，失礼了。¤Originally it was Elder Zhong in front of me, I apologize for my rudeness.
此剑，你且收着。¤Keep this sword for now.
正是晚辈。¤It is indeed the junior generation.
你是宗门新晋的{FirstName}长老吧。¤You are the newly appointed elder of the clan, {FirstName}.
嗯？哈哈...¤Hmm? Haha...
（这剑在成胚之时融入了两颗火龙牙，怎么才侃侃达到上品法宝的品阶。）¤(This sword, infused with two fire dragon teeth during its embryonic state, has only recently reached the top-grade artifact level.)
我绝焰堂本就人丁稀少，最近本门附近也不太平，确实是分不出像{shidi}你这样修为精深又办事牢靠的人了。¤Our Jueyan Hall has always had a small population, and recently, it has not been peaceful near this gate. Indeed, it is difficult to find someone like you, {shidi}, who has profound cultivation and is reliable in handling affairs.
那我立刻动身。\n¤Then I immediately set off.
麟尊前辈过誉了。¤Senior Linzun is being overly praised.
哈哈哈，不说这些了，今日请{shidi}过来除了是例行公事之外，也有一件小事想要劳烦{shidi}。¤Hahaha, let's not talk about that. {shidi}, I have invited you here today not only as a formality but also because I have a small favor to ask of you.
我虽是久居麟庙之内，但对你也是早有耳闻。¤Even though I have long resided in the lin temple, I have also heard of you early on.
钟长老但说无妨。¤Elder Zhong's words don't matter.
道友看来有些面善，是否与我千流岛有些渊源？¤Fellow daoist, you seem familiar. Do you have any connection with Myriad Rivers Island?
你皮笑肉不笑地和他打着太极，你来我往间那修士终于露出不耐烦的神色。¤You play Taiji with him in a joking manner, but the cultivator eventually shows signs of impatience during the back and forth between you two.
千流岛往来修士众多，道友恐怕是记错了吧。¤There are many cultivators coming and going on Myriad Rivers Island, perhaps fellow daoist is mistaken.
我的身价再高那也得你有命拿才行！¤My worth may be high, but you'll need your life to take it!
道友也不必遮掩了，你的追捕令早已在岛上传遍，怕是你还不清楚自己的身价吧？¤Fellow daoist, there is no need to conceal it anymore. Your wanted notice has already been spread throughout the island. Perhaps you are not aware of your own value?
我们正准备前往{color=#d0380a}南崖城{/color}，看能不能赶上下一次的拍卖会。¤We are preparing to go to {color=#d0380a}South Cliff City{/color}, to see if we can catch the next auction.
看看我这里有没有你需要的东西吧。¤Take a look and see if I have what you need.
（惊恐地看着你）你...你有何事？¤(Looking at you in fear) What... what do you want?
（尊敬地看着你）前辈有何吩咐？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Respectfully looking at you, senior, what are your orders?)
（煞气腾腾地看着你）何事？¤What's the matter? (Looking at you fiercely)
我们正准备去附近的海域猎杀海兽，之后再把这批货物运往{color=#d0380a}宁州{/color}。¤We are preparing to hunt sea beasts in the nearby waters, and then transport this batch of goods to Ningzhou.
这次带来的货物都已经出手了，我们正准备返航回{color=#d0380a}蓬莎岛{/color}。¤The goods brought this time have all been sold, and we are preparing to return to {color=#d0380a}Pongsha Island{/color}.
当然，如果你愿意分担我一部分修理灵舟的费用，大概是{color=#d0380a}2000灵石{/color}，我不介意带你一程。一切顺利的话，我想我们会在{color=#d0380a}一年{/color}后抵达那里。¤Of course, if you're willing to share some of the cost for repairing the spirit boat, it'll be around {color=#d0380a}2000 spirit stones{/color}. I don't mind taking you along for the ride. If all goes well, I think we'll arrive there in {color=#d0380a}one year{/color}.
多谢道友。¤Thank you fellow daoist.
我对你的实力与品性都所知甚少，出海本就危机四伏，我不能冒险把你一起带上。¤I know very little about your strength and character. It's already dangerous to go out to sea. I cannot take the risk of bringing you along.
不错，我们的确正在做出海的准备，你打听这个做什么？¤Not bad, we are indeed making preparations to go out to sea. Why do you ask about this?
（友善地看着你）我听说过你的名字，有什么事么？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Friendly gaze at you) I have heard your name, is there something you need? {w}{w=0.5}
当然，如果你愿意分担我一部分修理灵舟的费用，大概是{color=#d0380a}4000灵石{/color}，我不介意带你一程。一切顺利的话，我想我们会在{color=#d0380a}两年{/color}后抵达那里。¤Of course, if you're willing to share the cost of repairing the spirit boat with me, which amounts to {color=#d0380a}4000 spirit stones{/color}, I don't mind taking you along for the ride. If all goes well, I think we'll arrive there in {color=#d0380a}two years{/color}.
我们正准备去附近的海域收集一些珍贵的草药，如果运气不差的话，最后我们会在{color=#d0380a}碎星岛{/color}出手这些货物。¤We are preparing to gather some valuable herbs in the nearby sea area. If our luck is not bad, we will finally sell these goods in shattered star island.
（提防地看着你）我听说过你的名字，你有何事？¤(I watch you warily) I have heard of your name, what do you want?
（恭敬地看着你）我听说过前辈的大名，有什么可以效劳的么？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Respectfully looking at you) I have heard of Senior's reputation, is there anything I can assist with? {w}{w=0.5}
（友好地看着你）我听说过道友你的名号，也许有机会我们也可以合作一番。{w}{w=0.5}¤(Friendly look at you) I have heard of your name as a fellow daoist, maybe we can cooperate in the future.
（平静地看着你）道友何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Fellow daoist, what's the matter? {w}{w=0.5})
（冷漠地看着你）何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Indifferently staring at you) What do you want? {w}{w=0.5}
还有什么事么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Is there anything else?
当然，参加猎魔试炼也有不小的危险，虽然门派会有相应的奖励补偿，但是否参与还是全凭自愿。距离下一次的猎魔试炼还有一段时间，你可以去找参加过往届试炼的师姐了解情况以后，再作决定。¤Of course, participating in the demon hunting trial is not without danger. Although the sect will provide corresponding rewards as compensation, it is ultimately up to individual volunteers to participate. There is still some time until the next demon hunting trial, so you can seek out senior sisters who have participated in previous trials to learn about the situation before making a decision.
颖儿，你将诸位长老的情况向你{shidi}介绍一下吧。¤Yinger, please introduce the elders' situation to your {shidi}.
距离下一次的猎魔试炼还有一段时间，你可以去找参加过往届试炼的师姐了解情况以后，再作决定。¤There is some time until the next demon hunting trial, so you can go find senior sisters who have participated in past trials to gather information before making a decision.
{xiaozi}，若是想要在英杰会上崭露头角来看看本座的丹药吧。¤{xiaozi}, if you want to shine in the Young Hero's Tournament, come and take a look at my pills.
好贵的价格。¤What an expensive price.
阁下，若是没什么需求还是不要乱转为好。¤Sir, if there is no need, it is better not to move around randomly.
若是能拔得头筹，就是奖励的灵石也比这个多，更不要提还能得到筑基丹了。¤If you can come out on top, the reward of spirit stones would be even more than this, not to mention the possibility of obtaining a foundation pill.
你感应到远处的山壁下传来一阵剧烈的灵气波动，便连忙去探查。¤You sense a violent spiritual energy fluctuation coming from the mountain wall in the distance and quickly go to investigate.
只见一名金丹期修士被树藤牢牢缠住，身体也被木刺穿过，血流不止，俨然已经失去了生命气息。¤I saw a cultivator in the golden core stage being firmly entangled by vines, his body pierced by wooden spikes, blood flowing without end, he seemed to have lost his life breath.
见此情形，你二人竟不约而同陷入了沉默。¤Seeing this situation, the two of you unexpectedly fell into silence without making any prior arrangements.
只见那团阴气飘落在一块寻常灰白色石头上，不仅没有消散，反而融入那块石头之中。整块石头被染成了深黑色。¤I saw the gloomy energy drifting onto a common gray-white rock, not only did it not dissipate, but it also merged into the rock. The entire rock was dyed deep black.
你刚转身，老爷爷又叫住了你。¤You had just turned around when the old grandpa called you back.
可惜…此人若神识再高一些，还尚有一线生机。¤Unfortunately... if this person's soul sense was even higher, there would still be a glimmer of hope for survival.
寻常修士死后，只会立马魂飞魄散，也不知这三冥海上有何玄机，竟能暂时护住其元神。¤After ordinary cultivators die, their souls will immediately scatter, and it is not known what mysteries there are in the Three Dark Seas that can temporarily protect their Yuan God.
看来是机缘巧合之下，这极阴之气与此人残留的元神能量融合在一起，附着到了这块石头之中。¤It seems that under fortuitous circumstances, the extreme yin energy and residual yuan god energy of this person fused together, attaching to this stone.
唉…生死有命，既然事已至此，这神阴石你便收下吧。¤Sigh... Life and death are predetermined. Since things have come to this point, take this shenyin stone as well.
等等，你看。¤Wait, look.
是旋龟...可惜...¤It is a whirling turtle... Unfortunately...
这…神阴石竟是这样来的…¤This... shenyin stone actually came like this...
几番周折过后，此人的元神终究还是支撑不住，那团包裹着元神的阴气如同菩提花一般飘落。¤After going through several twists and turns, this person's yuan god finally couldn't hold on anymore, and the Yin Qi wrapped around the yuan god fell like bodhi blossoms.
眼见事态已没有挽救的余地，你暗自叹了口气，便转过身准备离开此地。¤Seeing that there was no hope left, you sighed inwardly and turned around to prepare to leave the place.
你转头一看——四周阴气向他的元神凝集而去，包裹住了他原本应该灰飞烟灭的元神。¤You turned your head and saw that the Yin Qi around you condensed around your Yuan God, wrapping it up and preventing it from dissolving into smoke.
别急，还没完。¤Don't worry, it's not over yet.
能见到此等奇物，倒也算是一种机缘了。先收下此物，日后再仔细研究一番吧。¤Seeing such a rare object is considered a stroke of luck. Let's take it and study it carefully in the future.
{FirstName}道友，大哥他最近是不是又看了外面卖的什么修仙话本？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, has Big Brother been reading those cultivation novels sold outside again?
二叔！是丢了什么贵重物品吗？¤Uncle! Did you lose any valuable items?
啊！那天我还从其他地方拿了书，可能是记混了！¤Ah! That day I also took a book from somewhere else, maybe I got confused!
哈哈哈，我猜的，我猜的，我们现在就去把这纸条还给二叔。¤Hahaha, I guessed it, I guessed it, let's go return this note to Uncle Er now.
倪旭荣，你老实说，这张纸条是从哪来的？你们在谋划些什么？¤Ni Xurong, tell the truth, where did this piece of paper come from? What are you plotting?
咦......？这本书我从未在书架上见过，而且此处的古籍书脊处都印有小型阵法，只要带出倪府便会自动传送回书架。你看，此书并无长老堂特有的阵法。¤Hmm...? I have never seen this book on the shelf before, and there is a small array printed on the spine of this ancient book. As long as it is taken out of Ni's Manor, it will automatically be transported back to the bookshelf. You see, this book does not have the array unique to the Elder Hall.
但书是在长老堂那里找到的，而纸片在倪旭荣的衣服口袋里，玉简却又在二叔的房间......¤But the book was found in the Elder Hall, while the pieces of paper were in Ni Xurong's pocket, and yet the jade slip was in Second Uncle's room...
既然这样就请你们帮我把它还给二叔吧。¤Since that's the case, please help me return it to Uncle Er.
二...二叔过来了！¤Er...Uncle Er is here!
我想起来了，那天二叔去后院时这张纸条从他身上落了下来，我才捡起来他人就没影了。¤I remember, that day when Second Uncle went to the backyard, this note fell from him and I only picked it up when he was already gone.
纸条是由那本莫名其妙出现在长老堂的书剪贴而成，倪旭荣说它原本属于二叔。¤The note was made from a book that inexplicably appeared in the Elder Hall, and Ni Xurong said it originally belonged to Uncle 2.
什么？拿来给我看看，吃了熊心豹子胆敢毁坏长老堂的古籍！¤What? Show it to me. Whoever dared to destroy the ancient texts of the elder hall after consuming bear's heart and leopard's gall!
这纸条不是你的吗，怎么可能只看着眼熟？¤Isn't this your note? How could it only look familiar?
经过这几天的调查，你¤没有发现任何可疑的情况
可二叔打听戮仙剑又是为了什么呢......？¤What is Uncle Ke asking about the Immortal Executing Sword for?
大哥，{FirstName}道友，你们怎么来了？¤Big Brother, Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, why have you come?
二长老闻言脸色有些不自然，略显紧张地从倪旭欣手中接过信件读了起来。¤The second elder's face turned slightly unnatural when he heard the words, and he nervously took the letter from Ni Xuxin's hand and began to read it.
也？还有什么东西不是我的？话说回来，大哥怎么如此确信纸条是我的东西......？¤Also? What else is not mine? Speaking of which, how is big brother so sure that the note is my thing...?
我们这就去找长老问问吧！¤Let's go ask the Elder right away!
是旭欣啊，也没什么大不了的，丢了个小物件儿。¤It's Xuxin, there's nothing serious, just lost a small object.
倪旭欣清了清嗓负手而立，装作一副严肃的样子。¤Ni Xuxin cleared his throat and stood with his hands behind his back, pretending to look serious.
虽然倪旭荣过于刻板也是个问题，但这个话题我们下次再讨论吧。¤Although Ni Xurong's rigidity is also a problem, let's discuss this topic next time.
既然如此，我们不妨也搜寻一下戮仙剑的消息，或许就能知道玄微剑仙所求何物了。¤Since that's the case, we might as well search for information on the Immortal Executing Sword to see if we can find out what Sword Immortal Xuanwei is looking for.
按着玉简上的数字裁下书上的字便可拼成那张纸条，虽然是在长老堂发现此书，但它却并不属于长老堂。¤By cutting down the characters on the book according to the numbers on the jade slip, the paper note can be formed. Although this book was found in the Elder Hall, it does not belong to the Elder Hall.
对了，那天我去拿书的时候还捡到了这封信。¤By the way, when I went to pick up the book that day, I also found this letter.
不敢，你小子有什么不敢的！别在老夫眼前乱晃了，快回去好好修炼吧！¤I dare not. What do you, little one, dare not?! Don't wander about in front of me, quickly go back and cultivate properly!
想来行事之人应该是怕读取玉简的灵力波动外泄，通过此法即使玉简落入他人手中，单凭一些无意义的数字与方位也无法获得准确的情报。¤Those who act with caution should be afraid of the spiritual power fluctuations when reading the jade slips. Even if the jade slips fall into someone else's hands, they cannot obtain accurate information based on some meaningless numbers and positions through this method.
玉简里的讯息是一串数字，幸好小爷足够机智，发现了它和书本以及纸条的关联。¤The information on the jade slip is a string of numbers. Luckily, this young master is clever enough to discover its connection with the books and notes.
什么？！¤What?!
先前发现的玉简和书本整合而成的暗号纸条属于二叔，我们在后院遇见二叔时他行迹鬼祟，应该就是在寻找那张纸条。¤The code paper combining the jade slip and book previously discovered belongs to Second Uncle. When we met Second Uncle in the backyard, he was acting sneaky and should be looking for that piece of paper.
玄微剑仙仿佛在寻找什么，并没发现你们。¤The Sword Immortal Xuanwei seemed to be searching for something and didn't notice you all.
不知道这小子跑到什么地方去了...不过无外乎就是修炼，用饭和读书。这个时间他应该在用午膳，去房间看看吧。¤I don't know where this kid went... but it must be cultivation, eating and reading. At this time, he should be having lunch, go check his room.
你不会真的是在外面看了什么修仙话本吧？¤Are you really reading some cultivation novels outside?
先前你给我的那本书和纸片！纸片上的字可以和书上的漏洞对应上！而玉简里的内容就是那些字于书中的具体位置！¤The book and the pieces of paper you gave me earlier! The words on the paper can correspond to the loopholes in the book! And the content in the jade slip is the specific location of those words in the book!
难道他们正在计划什么...？不行，我们得试探一下他们看看究竟怎么回事。¤Could they be planning something...? No, we need to probe and see what's really going on.
你认为倪家或许存在问题的人是¤Who do you think might have problems with the Ni family?
你和倪旭欣一同来到长老堂。¤You and Ni Xuxin came together to the Elder Hall.
...我看{FirstName}{xiongdi}倒是有点不正常。¤...I think {FirstName}{xiongdi} is acting a bit abnormal.
闻言玄微剑仙神色微变，连忙摆了摆手拒绝掉你们的好意，然后一个人走向了后院。¤Upon hearing the words sword immortal xuanwei, the expression of the Xuanhuan sword immortal changed slightly. He quickly waved his hand to reject your kindness, then walked towards the backyard alone.
纸片也不是你的？¤Paper pieces aren't yours either?
玉简...对啊，这东西不能拿出来！¤The jade scroll...Yeah, this thing cannot be taken out!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}还有什么想不通的地方吗？¤{FirstName}, is there anything else you can't understand, brother?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}与我所想不谋而合！¤{FirstName} brother coincides with what I think!
你二叔好像在找什么东西。¤Your second uncle seems to be looking for something.
倪旭欣和你灰头土脸地离开了长老堂。¤Ni Xuxin and you left the Elder Hall looking disheveled.
人多力量大，不如我们也来帮忙吧。¤Many people make great strength, why don't we also lend a hand?
二长老，你在这儿太好了！我前些日子想找些典籍看，正巧那边的书架上有便拿了回去。可我回房翻开书里面被划得不成样子，跟本没法读！¤Second Elder, you being here is great! I was looking for some books to read a few days ago, and luckily there were some on the bookshelf over there, which I took back with me. However, when I got back to my room and opened one of the books, it was covered in scribbles and I couldn't read it at all!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}说得有理，不过比起我还是差上那么一点！¤{FirstName} Brother makes a valid point, but still falls a bit short compared to me!
倪旭荣放下碗筷，神色古怪地看了看倪旭欣，紧接着向你投来询问的目光。¤Ni Xurong put down his chopsticks and looked at Ni Xuxin strangely. Then he turned to look at you and asked with an inquiring look.
天蝉灵叶...到底是用来做什么的呢？¤What is the purpose of the Skyscada Leaf?
没有，没有！长老堂的信我哪敢擅自拆阅！¤No, no! I dare not read the Elder Hall's letter without authorization!
长老有什么不正常的地方吗？{FirstName}{xiongdi}还是再想想吧。¤Elder, is there anything abnormal? {FirstName}, let's think about it again, {xiongdi}.
倪兄，你打算怎么问玄微剑仙？¤Brother Ni, how do you plan to ask Sword Immortal Xuanwei?
信里的内容你读过了？¤Did you read the contents of the letter?
什么事大惊小怪的？¤What's the big fuss?
你决定要找谁谈谈？¤Who do you decide to talk to?
不过那张纸条我倒是有些眼熟......¤But I'm somewhat familiar with that piece of paper...
小友不知是否愿入我麾下？{w}{w=0.5}¤Dear young friend, are you willing to join my team?
甚好，甚好！本王即刻派人安排小友的住处，你便跟着管事去罢。¤Very good, very good! This king will immediately send someone to arrange the young friend's accommodation, so you can follow the steward.
呵呵呵，那些在外界绝世稀有的宝物秘籍都不过是本王最普通的藏品。只要你对本王有用，本王所有的荣华富贵都可以与你一同分享。¤Hehehe, those secret manuals of treasure that are extremely rare in the outside world are nothing but the most normal collection of this king. As long as you are useful to this king, all of this king's glory and riches can be shared with you.
如有不满，小友现在就可以自行离去，本王绝不限制你的行动。¤If you are dissatisfied, young friend may leave now, I will not restrict your actions.
可惜，可惜...既然如此，本王也不强求。来人，送客！¤Unfortunately, unfortunately... since it is so, this king will not force it. Someone, send off the guest!
为本王效力的这段时间里，你只需要替本王寻觅长生之术，并代本王前去辨别消息真伪。若有需要你办的事，本王自然让府里的管事通知于你。¤During the time in which you serve me, your only task is to seek out the eternal life technique for me and verify the truth of any information. If there is anything I need you to do, the steward of the mansion will inform you.
道友既然来了，何再不与韩某过上两招？¤Fellow daoist, since you have come, why not exchange a few moves with Han?
阁下可敢试试，自己能接韩某几招？¤Would you dare to try and see if you can handle some moves from me, Han?
既然小辈奈何不得你，就由本座出手吧，¤Since the younger generation cannot afford to offend you, let this seat make a move.
呼~~这天机阁果真不好惹，还是走为上策。¤Sigh~~ This heavens secrets pavilion is truly not easy to deal with. It's better to retreat.
哼~这天机阁的执事不过如此嘛。¤Hmph~ The servant of the heavens secrets pavilion is nothing special.
岩壁上一道奇异的光泽引起了你的注意...原来是{SayStcVal=948}。¤A strange gleam on the cliff caught your attention... It turned out to be {SayStcVal=948}.
此地有一块奇石会吸收你的神念，在释放而出，受此启发，你对神之道有所感悟。¤There is a strange stone here that absorbs your divine thoughts, and upon releasing them, you are enlightened, sensing the sense dao.
眼前熔火生生不息，你对火之道有所感悟。¤The raging flames before you burned endlessly, and you had some enlightenment towards the Fire Dao.
此地地形甚是奇特，灵气流动不断轮转，生生不息，受此启发，你对气之道有所感悟。¤The terrain here is very peculiar, with constantly rotating and flowing spiritual energy that never ceases. Inspired by this, you have gained some enlightenment on the way of Qi.
此地有一道裂隙，宛若一道剑痕，你对剑之道有所感悟。¤There is a crack here, like a sword scar, you have some enlightenment on the way of the sword.
眼前藤蔓枯萎生长，轮回交替不止，你对木之道有所感悟。¤The vines in front of you wither and grow, and reincarnation continues. You have a feeling of the wood dao.
眼前水流奔腾不息，你对水之道有所感悟。¤Before your eyes, the water flows endlessly, and you have a feeling of enlightenment towards the Water Dao.
眼前金石甚是锐利，你对金之道有所感悟。¤Before your eyes, the golden stones are very sharp, you have some enlightenment on the metal dao.
眼前山石散去化沙，你对土之道有所感悟。¤The stones and mountains in front of you turned into sand, and you gained enlightenment in the earth dao.
我们快去找正主吧。¤Let's go find the protagonist quickly.
糟了...宫主恐怕已经...¤Oops... The palace master is probably...
阵法好像被解除了，好厉害。¤The array seems to have been disbanded, very powerful.
只听轰的一声，尔后便是有什么碎裂开来，原本阵法空间中充斥着的哀嚎悲啸尽是消融，满眼的昏暗也是自东北向西南退却而去。¤I hear a loud sound, followed by something cracking apart. The wailing and crying that filled the space of the formation is gone, and the darkness retreats from northeast to southwest.
嗯，尖啸声减弱了。¤Um, the scream reduced.
阵法好像有些变化。¤The formation seems to have changed.
之前感应到的战斗波动好像停下了...¤Previously detected combat fluctuations seem to have stopped...
嗯，阵法空间没那么昏暗了。¤Mhm, the array space isn't as dim anymore.
{FirstName}师弟，你要接取哪个任务？¤Junior {FirstName}, which quest do you want to take?
幽州的魔道之首？¤The leader of demonic cultivation in Youzhou?
我明白了。¤I understand.
任务奖励你且收好，待我上报宗门。¤Take the task reward and keep it, I will report to the clan.
师弟，回来的正好。这是本来要奖励你的灵石。李师兄，也在找你。¤Junior brother, you've come back just in time. Here are the spirit stones that were meant to reward you. Senior brother Li is also looking for you.
{FirstName}师弟，目前没有需要外门弟子的任务了。¤Junior {FirstName}, there are currently no quests for outer disciples.
我已查探清楚，是有人在猎捕凡人和低阶散修，疑似是魔门的人。¤I have investigated and found out that someone has been capturing mortals and low-level wandering cultivators. It is suspected that they are people from the demonic sect.
师弟，师弟可有眉目？¤Junior, any news on your progress?
不过，这一次和你为敌的修士，根据我对现场的查看却是是天魔道的修士。¤However, the cultivator who is your enemy this time, according to my investigation on the scene, is a heavenly demon cult disciple.
嗯，我已经备案了，在师弟你有结果之前，其他弟子不会插手你的任务。¤Hmm, I have already registered it. Before you, junior, have results, no other disciples will interfere with your quests.
近来广陵城附近屡屡有人失踪，需要弟子调查。\n\n¤Recently, there have been multiple cases of people going missing near Guangling City. Disciples are needed to investigate.
那我就出发了。¤Then I will set off.
嗯，我已经备案了，在师弟你有结果之前，其他弟子不会插手你的任务。\n传闻九嶷山有些邪修出没，{FirstName}师弟，你小心行事。¤Okay, I have filed it. Other disciples will not interfere with your quests until you have results, junior. Rumours have it that there are some demonic cultivators lurking in Jiuyi Mountain, so be careful, {FirstName}.
正是，我执事堂有不少任务需要人手，不过师弟也要量力而行啊。¤It is true, my deacon's hall has many quests that require manpower, but junior must also act within one's capabilities.
多谢师兄关心，那我就出发了。¤Thank you for your concern, senior brother. Then I'll set off.
御剑门哪里的异动可有眉目了？\n¤Is there any news on the changes in the Imperial Sword Sect?
本门方壶山灵石矿脉有不明修士踪迹，需要增派弟子巡逻。\n\n¤Our sect's Fang Hu Mountain has unidentified cultivator traces in the spirit stone vein of the ore. We need to send additional disciples to patrol.
九嶷山御剑门遗址似有异动需要查探。\n\n¤The ruins of the Imperial Sword Gate in Jiuyi Mountain seem to have some movement and require investigation.
嗯，正是。这次你对宗门有功，这枚养气丹，你且收好。¤Yes, that's right. This time, you have done a great service for the clan. Take this lesser qi pill and keep it for yourself.
广陵城的人口失踪可有眉目了？¤Has there been any information on the disappearance of the population of Guangling City?
师弟很是面生，可是新入门的弟子。¤Junior brother is quite unfamiliar, but he is a newly admitted disciple.
多谢师兄。¤Thank you, senior brother.
我已查探清楚，是有御剑门遗迹的法阵波动，并无大事发生。¤I have investigated and found that there are fluctuations in the formation of the ruins of the Imperial Sword Sect, but there is nothing serious happening.
{FirstName}师弟，是来执行任务的吗？¤Junior {FirstName}, are you here to complete quests?
此次，你得知古神教的踪迹对宗门实属大功一件，但此事不宜打草惊蛇所以就没有大肆宣扬。¤This time, you learned that the trace of the Ancient God Sect is a great achievement for the clan, but it is not suitable to alert the enemy, so it was not widely publicized.
我最近刚刚入门，听闻师兄这里可以接取任务？¤I have just recently started and heard that senior brother can offer quests here?
我已传信方壶山执事堂，你还是快快前去为好。¤I have already sent a message to the Deacon Hall of Fang Hu Mountain. It would be best if you hurry and go there.
师弟，接下来的事宜就由我单独和{FirstName}师弟谈谈吧。¤Junior Brother, I will talk to Junior Brother {FirstName} privately about the matters at hand.
多谢师兄了。¤Thank you, senior brother.
请问师兄，目前可有适合外门弟子的任务？¤May I ask senior brother, are there any quests suitable for outer disciples currently?
我已传信方壶山执事堂，你直接过去找负责矿脉的执事就好了。¤I have informed the Deacon Hall of Fang Hu Mountain, you can go directly to find the deacon in charge of the vein of ore.
承让了。¤Please allow me.
甘拜下风。¤I am inferior to you.
我们正准备把货物运回{color=#d0380a}南崖城{/color}。¤We are preparing to transport the goods back to {color=#d0380a}South Cliff City{/color}.
我们的商队正准备去附近的海域收购材料，之后再把这批货物运往{color=#d0380a}宁州{/color}。¤Our caravan is preparing to purchase materials in the nearby waters, and then transport this batch of goods to Ningzhou.
我们的商队正准备出发前往{color=#d0380a}蓬莎岛{/color}，去那里的坊市收购一些材料。¤Our caravan is preparing to depart for {color=#d0380a}Pongsha Island{/color} to purchase some materials from the marketplace there.
这次要收购的物资已经差不多了，我们正准备返回{color=#d0380a}碎星岛{/color}。¤The materials to be acquired this time are almost complete, and we are about to return to the Shattered Star Island.
多谢指点。¤Thank you for your guidance.
嗯...要说起这古原城嘛，就得从一万年前宁州的那场正魔大战说起了。¤Hmm... Speaking of Gu Yuan City, we have to start with the Holy vs. Demonic War in Ningzhou ten thousand years ago.
古原城？¤Gu Yuan City?
这万年来不知有多少奇珍异宝和传承功法在宁州失传，恐怕也只有进入宁州古迹之中才有可能寻到。如此机缘，各大门派当然不会错过。¤Over the past ten thousand years, countless rare treasures, precious artifacts and inherited techniques have been lost in Ningzhou, and it is only by entering the ancient ruins of Ning Province that they can be found. Such an opportunity, the sects will certainly not miss out.
古代城池遗迹？我还从未听说过宁州有这样的地方。¤Ruins of ancient cities? I have never heard of such a place in Ningzhou before.
我在古籍中看到了有关古代城池遗迹的记载，这遗迹...应该就在宁州，你可曾听说过？¤I saw records about ancient city ruins in ancient books. These ruins... should be in Ningzhou. Have you ever heard of it?
哈哈哈，我虽然也未曾进入过这古迹。不过听闻每次古迹开启之时，宁州各地{color=#d0380a}元婴期{/color}以上修为的修士大都会进入探索一番。¤Hahaha, although I have never entered this ancient site before. But I have heard that every time the site is opened, cultivators with a nascent soul cultivation level or above from all over Ningzhou will mostly enter to explore.
当年魔道入侵宁州，目标直指作为宁州第一大城的古原城，在那里发生了一场规模浩荡的大战，连化神老祖都参与其中。¤When the demonic path invaded Ningzhou, their target was directly aimed at Gu Yuan City, the largest city in Ningzhou, where a massive battle of epic proportions took place, even involving the Deity Transformation Ancestor.
按往年的记录，这薄弱之处往往会出现在{color=#d0380a}岫络谷{/color}的附近。此时修为高深者便可尝试强行穿越这空间壁垒，从而进入古迹。¤According to previous records, this weakness often appears near the Cui Luo Valley. At this time, those with advanced cultivation can attempt to forcefully cross this spatial barrier and enter the ancient ruins.
由于战斗过于激烈，以至于产宁州古迹如今已经陷入空间裂隙之中，要想进入那片空间，唯有趁{color=#d0380a}千年{/color}一次空间壁障薄弱时强行闯入。¤Due to the intense combat, the Ningzhou ancient ruin has now fallen into a space rift. In order to enter that space, one must forcefully break through during the once-in-a-thousand-years weak point of the space barrier.
整座城池都被卷入另外一处位面，真是闻所未闻...¤The entire city was swept into another dimension, it's truly unheard of...
我在古籍中看到了有关古代城池遗迹的记载，这遗迹...应该就在宁州，道友可曾听说过？¤I saw records about ancient city ruins in ancient books, and these ruins should be in Ningzhou. Fellow Daoist, have you ever heard of it?
另外一片位面？那要如何才能进入这座古迹？¤Another plane? How can we enter this ancient relic?
由于战斗过于激烈，以至于产生了恐怖的空间裂隙，最终连同整座古原城一起，都被卷到了另外一片位面。¤Due to the intense combat, a terrifying space rift was created, ultimately causing the entire Gu Yuan City to be transported to another dimension.
古代城池遗迹...莫非{$TmpTalkString}说的是那古原城？¤Could it be that the ancient city ruins referred to by {$TmpTalkString} are the Gu Yuan City?
要买什么自己挑。¤Choose whatever you want to buy by yourself.
听说隔壁那个摊位卖的丹药，吃了会拉肚子。¤I heard that the pills sold at the stall next door will cause diarrhea if consumed.
你到底买不买？？¤Do you buy it or not??
山里海里，水里火里，只要是灵气荟萃之地，都可能孕育天材地宝。能不能得到，那就各凭本事了。¤In the mountains, in the sea, in the water, in the fire, as long as it is a place where spiritual energy gathers, it may breed talented treasures of heaven and earth. Whether or not one can obtain them depends on one's own ability.
这些炼器材料都是从哪里获得的？¤Where did you gain these refining materials from?
随便看，随便挑。¤Look as you please, choose as you please.
东石谷最好的宝贝都在这儿了。¤The best treasures of East Stone Valley are all here.
请随意挑选¤Please feel free to choose.
道友，看看有什么需要的？¤Fellow daoist, is there anything you need?
要买什么？¤What do you want to buy?
走过路过不要错过！¤Pass by and don't miss it!
价廉物美，看看您要什么？¤Good quality and low price, what are you looking for?
这位道友，有什么看上的东西？¤Fellow Daoist, is there anything that catches your interest?
虽是许久无人维护，但是你仍可以看出此地是洞府主人的藏书之地。¤Although it has been a long time since anyone maintained it, you can still see that this place is the master's book collection cave.
此地看上去废弃已久，看看还有什么有价值的东西。¤This place looks abandoned for a long time, see if there's anything valuable left.
此地看上去乃是有主之地，我还是不要乱动为好。¤This land seems to have an owner, it's better if I don't tamper with it.
你决定......¤You decide...
你发现一处被阵法隐匿的暗格，打开后是一份秘籍。¤You discover a concealed compartment created by an array, and upon opening it, you found a secret manual.
当然去过了！怎么问起这个？¤Of course I have been there! Why do you ask?
那把剑的去处倪兄可知？¤Do you know where that sword went, Brother Ni?
倪兄可曾见过一把剑？¤Brother Ni, have you ever seen a sword?
你去过倪家主的卧房吗？¤Have you been to the bedroom of the head of the Ni family?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，调查有什么结果吗？¤{FirstName} brother, any results from the investigation?
天色已晚，我先回自己的房间了，我们明天再聊。¤The sky was already late, so I went back to my room first. Let's talk again tomorrow.
什么去处？难道不就挂在我爹居室的墙上吗？¤What place? Isn't it just hanging on the wall in my dad's living room?
你说的是挂在墙上的那把吧？别提了，我小时候见它不俗便想摘下来耍一通，还没摸到剑鞘就被我爹好一顿收拾，自此长了记性是再也不敢碰了。¤Are you talking about the one hanging on the wall? Don't even mention it. When I was a child, I wanted to take it off and play with it just because it looked cool. But before I even touched the scabbard, my dad gave me a good beating, and since then, I've known better than to touch it again.
对了，除此之外还有张奇怪的地图，倪兄能看出来这是哪里吗？¤By the way, there is also a strange map, can Brother Ni tell where this is?
我也看不太懂，上面好像有我爹常用的密文......等他平安回来倒是可以问问他。¤I also can't understand it very well, there seems to be a code my dad often uses above... I can ask him when he comes back safely.
不见了...可能是我爹闭关的时候把它带走了吧......¤It's gone... maybe my dad took it with him when he went into seclusion...
你将卧室里的见闻说给倪旭欣。¤You tell the observations in the bedroom to Ni Xuxin.
一入山洞，妖兽特有的腥膻气味扑面而来。¤Upon entering the mountain cave, the unique pungent odor of the spirit beast assaulted the senses.
哇！这里的妖兽一定不少，难怪成为一方祸害！¤Wow! There must be many spirit beasts here, no wonder they have become a calamity in this area!
沂山派也不过如此，你们一起上好了！¤The Mt. Yi Sect is nothing special, you all can attack together!
好险好险...这沂山派的杂鱼也不是那么容易对付的嘛。¤That was close... These miscellaneous fish of the Mt. Yi Sect are not that easy to deal with.
百里一族无法完美掌握《太上化龙诀》的原因就在于身体，若取得龙珠即可改善体质，如我龙族一般如鱼得水地修练此诀。¤The reason why the Bai Li clan cannot perfectly master the Great Dragon Transformation Skill is due to their body. If they obtain a Dragon Ball, it can improve their physique, allowing them to cultivate this technique like my Dragon Clan does effortlessly.
祖父他不会是...窃走了龙珠吧？¤Could it be that my grandfather...stole the dragon ball?
那我们这便启航吧！¤Then let's set sail!
这是?¤What is this?
我族一气之下联合众海兽攻向广陵城，却不知百里武如何说动广陵城中权贵，筑起内外两道城墙，白白牺牲平民百姓的性命。我们海兽也不愿殃及无辜，几番进攻无果后最终也只得作罢。¤Our clan joined forces with various sea beasts to attack Guangling City in a fit of anger, but we did not know how Bai Liwu was able to convince the elites within Guangling City to build two layers of walls, causing the unnecessary sacrifice of the lives of innocent civilians. We sea beasts were also unwilling to harm the innocent, so after several unsuccessful attacks, we had no choice but to give up.
黑心盗取宗门至宝嗜血珠，天邪子奉命追击，尔等酌情配合。¤The heavenly devil is tasked with pursuing the thief who stole the bloodthirsty bead, a precious treasure of the clan. Coordinate accordingly.
好吧，这下都对上了。¤Okay, now it's all matched up.
传送阵，而且是专门用来传送记事玉简的小型传送阵，灵气波动很小极难被察觉。¤Teleportation array, and it is specifically used to teleport jade slips for note-taking. The spiritual energy fluctuations are very small and very difficult to detect.
我等又岂是那蛮横不讲理之人，看在旧日情分只要他归还龙珠便不计前嫌。岂料百里武这厮，竟直接带着龙珠举族迁至宁州广陵城！¤How could we be those barbaric and unreasonable people? As long as he gives back the Dragon Ball, we will not hold a grudge because of our previous relationship. Unexpectedly, Baili Wu actually moved his whole family to Guangling City in Ningzhou with the Dragon Ball in tow!
我来看看有什么发现？¤I'll take a look and see if there's anything interesting.
旧时百里族与龙族常有商贸往来，彼此间关系融洽，百里族长老同龙族长老甚至携手创出功法《太上化龙诀》。此功法龙族中化形者修练得心应手，如虎添翼，百里族人却因种族差异修练起来稍逊几分。¤In the past, there was frequent trade between the Baili clan and the dragon clan, and they had a good relationship with each other. The Baili clan elders and the dragon clan elders even collaborated to create the technique 《Great Dragon Transformation Skill》. Those in the dragon clan who have transformed can easily practice this technique and enhance their abilities, while those from the Baili clan have a slight disadvantage in practicing it due to racial differences.
这是?传送阵？¤Is this a teleportation array?
加之广陵城与碎星岛为了调和两族矛盾让了些好处予我们，我们才应承只要百里族人不踏入龙族所在的海域就不会再掀起兽潮。¤Furthermore, Guangling City and Shattered Star Island have offered us some benefits to harmonize the conflict between the two clans. Therefore, we have agreed that as long as the Baili clan does not enter the sea area where the Dragon Clan resides, there will be no more beasts causing havoc.
这阵法乃是龙族所布，只要有百里族人踏入院内便会发出警示，因此龙昌海才会前去捉捕你们。¤This array was set up by the Dragon Clan. Once a member of the Baili Clan enters the courtyard, an alarm will be triggered, which is why Long Changhai went to arrest you.
化尘教已察觉不对，渗透计划暂缓。¤The Shifting Sand Sect has detected something amiss, and infiltration plans are on hold temporarily.
所以，这就是他们联络总部的方式吧。¤So, this is their way of contacting headquarters.
是的，专门用来传送记事玉简的小型传送阵，灵气波动很小极难被察觉。¤Yes, a small teleportation array specifically used for transporting jade slips for note-taking, with very slight spiritual energy fluctuations that are very difficult to detect.
看在你们对龙族并无加害之心的份上今日便放过你二人，切莫再到碎星岛来了。¤As you have no ill intentions towards the dragon clan, I will spare you both today. But do not come to Shattered Star Island again.
哼，不仅如此。当时龙太子念旧情要他交还龙珠，他一口否认此事，还出手把龙太子打成重伤！¤Hmph, not only that. At the time, when the Dragon Prince remembered their old relationship and asked him to return the Dragon Ball, he denied it with one mouthful and even injured the Dragon Prince severely with his hands!
既然如此，我便先回到蓬莎岛与族中商队汇合。不知{FirstName}{xiongdi}接下来的打算是...{w}{w=0.5}¤Since that's the case, I'll go back to Pongsha Island and meet up with the clan's trading caravan. I'm not sure what {FirstName} and {xiongdi} have planned next...{w}{w=0.5}
如此我便等你五年，不论结果如何你都要回到化龙海域告知于我。¤So I will wait for you for five years. No matter what the outcome is, you must come back and inform me in the Shifting Dragon Sea.
百里武因与龙太子关系颇好，时常来龙族作客。偶然间得知我龙族秘宝有着将寻常修士凡胎肉体化为与龙族相匹的强劲体魄后，他便产生了邪念。¤Baili Wuyin has a good relationship with the Dragon Prince and often visits the Dragon Clan. By chance, he learned about our Dragon Clan's secret treasure, which can transform the ordinary body of a cultivator into a strong body comparable to that of the Dragon Clan, and he developed evil thoughts.
没想到广陵城兽潮的罪魁祸首居然是祖父...¤I didn't expect that the mastermind behind the beast tide in Guangling City was actually my grandfather...
霍~~这气息，魔神蛊啊，又是古神教。¤Wow~~ This aura, it's the Devil God Gu, and it's the Ancient God Sect again.
那我们就此分别吧！¤Let's part ways here then!
此地只是一个简单的洞穴，但有一具尸体倒在正中。¤This is just a simple cave, but there is a corpse lying in the center.
这是...记事玉简！还有两个。¤This is... a jade slip for note-taking! There are two more.
看来也没有其他的线索了，先回白帝楼复命吧。¤It seems there are no other clues, let's return to the White Emperor Pavilion to report back.
前辈，此事本是我祖父之过，待我回到广陵城后定劝说他奉还龙珠。¤Senior, this matter was originally a fault of my grandfather. After I return to Guangling City, I will persuade him to return the Dragon Ball.
哼，看来百里武这家伙并没告诉后代他当年做的好事啊！¤Hmph, it seems that Bai Liwu didn't tell his descendants about the good things he did back then!
看衣着是化尘教弟子。¤She is dressed like a disciple of the Shifting Sand Sect.
百里武与我族太子原本是儿时玩伴，没想到为了自身前途竟做出此等离心离德之事！¤Baili Wu and our clan's crown prince were childhood playmates, but I never expected that he would commit such a disloyal act for his own future prospects!
桀桀桀桀桀...又有新鲜的魂魄送上门来了。¤Hehehehehe... Another fresh soul has come to our doorstep.
碎星岛上以商队居多，他们经常会以丰厚的报酬聘请修士护送船队前往目的地。先前正好有一队商人往宁州运货，我便跟着他们回来了。¤On Shattered Star Island, there are mostly merchant caravans, who often hire cultivators with generous rewards to escort their fleets to their destination. There happened to be a group of merchants transporting goods to Ningzhou, so I followed them back.
好险，这青面鬼果然厉害。¤That was close, this green-faced ghost is truly powerful.
今日灭这沂山派，也算功德一件。¤Today's destruction of the Mt. Yi Sect can also be considered a meritorious act.
咳咳...¤Ahem...
好了，你不必担心老夫的情况，倒是自己得更加小心。¤Okay, you don't need to worry about my condition, but you need to be more careful yourself.
这么看来，五大门派与民间传闻皆煞有其事的指责御剑门掌门勾结魔门...¤From this perspective, the five major sects and the rumors among the people all accuse the master of the Imperial Sword Sect of colluding with the Demon Sect...
此等机缘不可强求，你若有心，多多留意便是。¤Opportunities like this cannot be forced, if you have the intention, pay close attention.
当年为了摆脱魔神蛊的控制，我确实施展秘术将自己的魂魄反向融入了诛仙剑中。虽然并非我本意，但诛仙剑确实是被我的魂魄所封印，我也因此失去了大部分的记忆。¤In order to free myself from the control of the devil god Gu, I did indeed use secret arts to merge my own soul in reverse into the Immortal Sword. Although it was not my intention, the Immortal Sword was indeed sealed by my soul, causing me to lose most of my memories as a result.
你是说九嶷山那个遗迹？¤Are you talking about the ruins on Jiuyi Mountain?
上次遇到的剑灵让我觉得有些眼熟...调查一下此剑或许会有新的线索。¤The sword spirit I encountered last time made me feel a bit familiar... Investigating this sword may provide new clues.
御剑门...私通魔门...被五大门派围攻...¤Imperial Sword Sect...colluded with demonic sect...was besieged by the five major sects...
你可曾听说过九嶷山的御剑门？¤Have you ever heard of the Imperial Sword Sect of Jiuyi Mountain?
这宁州古迹中或许不乏已经绝迹多年的宝物和功法，但想要在古迹中有所机缘，实力与情报缺一不可。¤In this Ningzhou ancient ruin, there may be treasures and techniques that have been lost for many years, but to have a chance in the ruins, both strength and intelligence are necessary.
既然如此，那我便继续四处打听一番吧，或许能帮你想起些什么。¤Since that's the case, I will continue to inquire around and perhaps help you remember something.
魏老，你放心。待我飞升时，一定能帮您重塑肉身的。¤Wei Lao, don't worry. When I ascend, I will definitely be able to help you reshape your physical body.
魏老神魂虚弱，这段时间还是先不要打扰他了...¤Old Wei's soul is weak, so let's not disturb him during this time...
当年战况紧急，老夫出手之时轩儿已经战至力竭昏迷，只得命几名弟子护送他离去。没想到最后他竟是被血剑宫的人救了...¤During the urgent battle that year, when I made a move, Xuan'er had already fought until exhaustion and unconsciousness, so I had to command a few disciples to escort him away. Unexpectedly, he was ultimately saved by someone from Blood Sword Palace...
多数灵剑都仰赖天地灵气提升品质，这把剑却依靠魔气提升......¤Most Lingjian rely on the spiritual qi of heaven and earth to improve their quality, but this sword relies on magic qi for improvement...
我有预感，离揭开真相的那一天已经越来越近了...¤I have a hunch that the day to uncover the truth is getting closer and closer...
想直接打听到有关魔门的线索恐怕不太容易，平日里也{color=#d0380a}多多留心{/color}吧。¤It's probably not easy to ask for clues about the magic door directly, so {color=#d0380a}pay attention{/color} to it in your daily life.
嗯，这些年来我们也算收集了不少线索。我有预感，离揭开真相的那一天已经越来越近了。¤Uh, over these years, we have also collected quite a few clues. I have a feeling that the day to uncover the truth is getting closer.
唉...此事说来话长，待我与你细细道来。¤Ah...this matter is a long story, let me explain it to you in detail.
老头，你有想起什么么？¤Old man, do you remember anything?
我依稀回忆起一些有关{color=#d0380a}御剑门{/color}和{color=#d0380a}古代城池遗迹{/color}的回忆...多{color=#d0380a}打听{/color}一下与此有关的传闻，或许能帮助我尽快恢复记忆...¤I vaguely remember some memories about the Imperial Sword Sect and ancient city ruins... I need to inquire more about rumors related to this, it might help me recover my memory faster...
最让我担心的其实是这柄剑。¤What actually worries me the most is this sword.
当时我原本已经到了炼化诛仙剑的关键时刻，但为了保护门内弟子，却不得不强行出手。被那魔神蛊乘虚而入，导致魔气入体，功亏一篑。¤At that time, I was already at a critical moment in refining the Immortal Sword, but I had to forcefully take action to protect the disciples in the sect. The Devil God's gu worm took advantage of my momentary lapse and caused my body to become infected with magic qi, resulting in my failure.
这段时间老夫虽然无法传音于你，但是对外界多少还能感知一二...轩儿所说之事，老夫还是知晓的。¤During this period of time, although I am unable to communicate with you, I am still able to perceive some things about the outside world...as for what Xuan'er said, I am aware of it.
明白了，那接下来便想办法{color=#d0380a}打听一番有关这座古城遗迹的传闻{/color}吧。¤Understood, then let's find a way to {color=#d0380a}dig up some rumours about this ancient city's ruins{/color} next.
无论如何，我都会为你感到骄傲的。¤Anyway, I will always be proud of you.
所以后来每当诛仙剑恢复时，我的魂魄也会因此壮大一分。这次也是因为诛仙剑重新恢复了通天灵宝的威能，我才得以恢复记忆。¤Therefore, every time the Immortal Sword recovers, my soul will also become stronger. This time, it is also because the Immortal Sword has regained the power of the Spiritual Treasures that I was able to recover my memory.
当年若非因为我执意要带回诛仙剑，又何至于被那古神教利用。¤If it weren't for my insistence on bringing back the Immortal Sword back then, how could I have been used by the Ancient God Sect.
老头儿，是不是想起什么了？¤Old man, did you remember something?
或许天魔眼能给你与老夫一个更为贴近真相的答案。¤Perhaps the Heavenly Devil's Eye can give you and me a closer answer to the truth.
这老怪物说的倒是没错。现在想来，那魔神蛊应当在宁州古迹时便已潜伏于魔剑之中，只是我未曾发现。¤The old monster's words are not wrong. Thinking back now, the devil god gu should have been hiding in the demon sword when it was still in the ancient ruins of Ning Province, but I did not discover it.
不错，这就是先前你捡到的那把铁剑，也正是...诛仙剑。虽不知为何千年后变成了平平无奇的铁剑，但我能确定当年它同那戮仙剑一般威能不凡。¤Not bad, this is the iron sword you picked up earlier, and it's also the...Immortal Sword. Although I don't know why it turned into an ordinary iron sword after thousands of years, I can be sure that it had the same powerful energy as the Immortal Executing Sword back then.
听那恶饕所言，当年你应该也是被古神教暗中种下了魔神蛊。¤Listen to what the gluttonous rat is saying, back then you should have also been secretly implanted with the devil god Gu by the Ancient God Sect.
你可还记得先前的御剑门？¤Do you still remember the previous Imperial Sword Sect?
那之后发生的事情你可还记得？¤Do you still remember what happened after that?
对了，是白帝...是师兄把我们救回南崖城的。当年之事，师兄也大致与我说了一番，可惜你当时还在昏迷，没能亲自和他说上话。¤By the way, it was the White Emperor...it was Senior Brother who saved us and brought us back to South Cliff City. Senior Brother told me the general story of what happened back then, but unfortunately, you were still unconscious and couldn't speak to him in person.
再往后发生之事我倒是记不太清了，但唯有一事我可以肯定...{color=#d0380a}我魏无极从未做过那勾结魔门之事！{/color}¤I cannot recall what happened afterwards, but there is only one thing I am certain of...{color=#d0380a} I, Wei Wuji, have never conspired with the demonic sect!{/color} Note
莫非这就是...？¤Could this be...?
一座巨大的古城，一片废墟，各大门派的修士...还有一柄剑...¤A huge ancient city, ruins everywhere, cultivators from various sects... and a sword...
没想到轩儿...哎...¤I didn't expect Xuan'er... sigh...
我想起了...一些零散的画面...¤I remembered...some scattered scenes...
一座巨大的古城废墟...各大门派都曾去过...若宁州真有如此规模的古城遗迹，我应该早去过才是。¤A huge ancient city ruins... All the sects have been there... If Ningzhou really had such a large-scale ancient city ruins, I should have gone there earlier.
希望是我多虑了。¤Hopefully, it was just my overthinking.
若这秘阁未被毁去，说不定在其中还能找到些许往日的记载。¤If this Secret Pavilion has not been destroyed, perhaps some past records can still be found within.
即便他们不来，御剑门的血债也不能就这么算了。与其被动等着他们找上门来，不如把主动权把握在自己手中。¤Even if they don't come, the blood debt of the Imperial Sword Sect can't just be written off like this. Instead of waiting passively for them to come to us, it's better to take the initiative into our own hands.
距离下一次宁州古迹开启还有{$TempValue}年，这古迹虽说有金丹期实力便可进入，但若无元婴期实力，恐怕难以自保。¤The next opening of the Ning Province Ancient Ruin is {$TempValue} years away. Although one can enter the ruin with Golden Core strength, it may be difficult to survive without the Nascent Soul strength.
还是记不起任何重要的事情，这或许和我的魂魄还比较虚弱有关...¤I still can't remember anything important. This may be related to my soul being relatively weak.
接下来的这段时间，多多{color=#d0380a}打听和古迹有关的情报{/color}，并且努力{color=#d0380a}提升自己的修为{/color}吧。¤In the following time, please gather more information regarding ancient relics, and make an effort to cultivate yourself.
千年前灭门的门派我哪有可能听说过。¤I couldn't have possibly heard of the sect that was exterminated a thousand years ago.
哎...其实我能感觉到，施展这秘术对轩儿有不小的影响。索性这次他成功飞升，没有因为我而出什么意外，否则让我如何过意的去。¤Ah...actually, I can feel that using this secret arts has a considerable impact on Xuan'er. Fortunately, he ascended successfully this time without any accidents caused by me. Otherwise, how could I face myself.
不错，难得你这{xiaozi}还能记得。¤Not bad, it's rare that you, {xiaozi}, still remember.
我只剩这一缕残魂，想要找回记忆并不是什么容易的事情。¤I only have this remnant soul left, and it's not an easy task to recover my memories.
老头！你...你没事了？¤Old man! Are you... are you okay now?
剑？是这柄铁剑么？你想起这柄剑的来历了？¤Sword? Is this iron sword? Do you remember the origin of this sword?
我依稀回忆起一些与{color=#d0380a}御剑门{/color}有关的回忆...多{color=#d0380a}打听{/color}一下与此派有关的传闻，或许能帮助我尽快恢复记忆...¤I vaguely recall some memories related to the Imperial Sword Sect... Finding out more about the rumors surrounding this sect may help me recover my memories faster...
宁州古迹...答案会在那里么...？¤Will the answer be in the ancient ruins of Ning Province?
若是能找到办法{color=#d0380a}壮大我的魂魄{/color}，或是打听到什么{color=#d0380a}过往的消息{/color}，说不定对我能够有所帮助。¤If I could find a way to {color=#d0380a}strengthen my soul{/color}, or learn some {color=#d0380a}news from the past{/color}, it might be of help to me.
诛仙剑在我输入灵气后迸发出极为霸道的剑气，震晕了方圆十里的修士，连那多宝塔也变得破败不堪。¤The Immortal Sword erupted with an extremely dominant sword qi after I inputted spiritual energy, stunning cultivators within a square of ten li, and even causing the Many Treasures Pagoda to become dilapidated.
没错，我依稀回忆起一些与此派有关的回忆...不知当年我与此派有何瓜葛。¤Right, I vaguely recall some memories related to this genre... I don't know what involvement I had with this faction back then.
那阵法连环相叠，纷杂繁乱，我耗费了几天时间才将其破解。¤That array formation overlapped and intertwined, it was complicated and confusing. It took me several days of time to decipher it.
老头，你是不是想起什么了？¤Old man, did you remember something?
你这些年听说过什么有关御剑门的传闻吗？¤Have you heard any rumours about the Imperial Sword Sect in recent years?
并无，说来也怪，吸收魔气的剑极其罕见，但我却一点也想不起与此剑相关之事。¤No, it's strange to say, swords that absorb magic qi are extremely rare, but I can't recall anything related to this sword at all.
按师兄所言，天魔道最近也不安分，待我回到宁州后，便先去探探他们的虚实。¤According to senior brother's words, the Heavenly Demon Cult disciples have been restless lately. When I return to Ningzhou, I will first investigate their true intentions.
得了诛仙剑那般的宝物，我自不会久留，将率领弟子回到山门之事委托给亲传大弟子后我便打道回府，打算探究一下那把剑的奥妙。¤After obtaining a treasure like the Immortal Sword, I will not stay for long. I will leave the task of leading my disciples back to the sect to my trusted senior disciple. Then, I will return home to investigate the mystery of the sword.
难怪...难怪那破塔如此凋敝，竟是因为魏老你。¤No wonder...no wonder that dilapidated tower is in such a state, it is all because of Old Wei.
{xiaozi}，先陪老夫再走一遭御剑门吧。门派虽已覆灭，但老夫却想起当年曾在门内设有一处密阁。¤{xiaozi}, come with me to visit the Imperial Sword Sect once again before you leave. Although the sect has been destroyed, I remember there was a secret chamber within the sect back in the days.
{xiaozi}，这段回忆可能对我非常重要。若是能重回这座古城，或许所有有关我身份和这柄铁剑的谜团，就都可以迎刃而解了。¤{xiaozi}, this memory may be very important to me. If I can return to this ancient city, perhaps all the mysteries regarding my identity and this iron sword can be easily solved.
需要打听消息时，可在与其他修士对话中选择{color=#d0380a}“我有些事情想问你”{/color}，获得你所需的情报。¤When you need to inquire about news, you can choose {color=#d0380a}I have something to ask you{/color} during a conversation with other cultivators to gain the information you need.
这些过往传闻对于我恢复记忆确实有些帮助。只是我未曾想到，这御剑门竟是因为私通魔门而灭的...不知我当年重伤躲进这铁剑之中，是否与这场大战有关。¤Those past rumours have indeed been somewhat helpful to me in recovering my memory. I just never thought that the Imperial Sword Sect was actually destroyed because of colluding with the devil sect...I wonder if my retreat into this iron sword due to severe injuries back then was related to this great war.
你这{xiaozi}死脑筋一个，早日找回记忆于你我都有帮助，没听说过不会主动打听打听吗！¤You, {xiaozi}, are so stubborn. It would be helpful for both of us if you can regain your memories soon. Haven't you heard of not knowing how to actively inquire about things?
他还说...你用自己的魂魄封印了诛仙剑。这或许就是你失忆的原因？¤He also said... you used your own soul to seal the Immortal Sword. Perhaps this is the reason for your amnesia?
仔细算算时间，说不定你便是上一次古迹开启之时，进入其中探索的。¤Carefully calculate the time, perhaps you were the one who entered and explored the ancient ruins the last time they were opened.
其实已经过去这么多年，我早就已经放弃这个念想了。只希望你能顺利渡劫飞升，莫要再行这危险之事了。¤Actually, it's been many years since I gave up on this dream. I just hope that you can smoothly transition to ascension and not engage in dangerous activities again.
我在古原城中一边寻找弟子的下落一边寻求机缘，最终在东边的一处多宝塔那里发现了极其复杂的阵法。¤While searching for the whereabouts of my disciple in Gu Yuan City, I sought opportunities and ultimately discovered an extremely complex array at a treasure tower in the east.
魏老，师兄此事...¤Old Wei, Senior Brother, this matter...
魏老，御剑门大仇已报，师兄又成功飞升了，你应该觉得高兴才是。¤Old Wei, the vendetta of the Imperial Sword Sect has been avenged, and Senior Brother has successfully ascended. You should feel happy.
千年前宁州古迹开启，我便率一干弟子进入其中求索机缘。我原本备好阵法，待进入古迹后即可与弟子结阵抵御煞气，熟料那古迹内部空间混乱，最后竟无一位弟子与我落于一处。¤A thousand years ago, the ancient ruins of Ning Province opened up, and I led a group of disciples to explore it. I had prepared an array to resist the evil energy upon entering the ruins, but the internal space turned out to be chaotic. In the end, none of my disciples ended up with me in the same place.
老头，你刚刚说的诛仙剑是...？¤Old man, what is the Immortal Sword you just mentioned...?
这传闻中提到的{color=#d0380a}魔门{/color}也令我在意。不管御剑门当年是真的私通魔门，还是背后另有隐情，都与这传闻中的魔门脱不了干系。¤The rumors about the {color=#d0380a}demonic sect{/color} mentioned in this have caught my attention. Whether the Imperial Sword Sect really colluded with the demonic sect back then or if there were other hidden motives behind it, they are still implicated with the demonic sect mentioned in these rumors.
层层叠叠的阵法之下掩藏的，是一柄煞气四溢的灵剑。¤Under the layers of stacked array lies a spirit sword overflowing with evil energy.
还死不了...不过...此番消耗也着实不小。想要完全恢复，多少还需要一些时日...¤Still can't die...but...this time the consumption is really not small. To fully recover, it still needs some time...
无妨，待日后还要重回御剑门调查一番。¤No matter, I will return to the Imperial Sword Sect to investigate again in the future.
如今魔门蠢蠢欲动，只要诛仙剑一日还在你手中，就必须做好与他们正面冲突的准备。¤Now that the demonic sect is stirring, as long as the Immortal Sword remains in your hands, you must prepare to face them head-on.
哎...其实我能感觉到，施展这秘术对轩儿有不小的影响。如若不是为了我，他不会被恶饕偷袭所伤，也不至于渡劫失败...¤Ah... actually, I can feel that using this secret arts has a considerable impact on Xuan-er. If it weren't for me, he would not have been injured by the evil glutton's sneak strike, nor would he have failed in his tribulation...
幸而我还有件护体灵符才免于剑气所伤，并趁乱逃出了宁州古迹。¤Luckily, I still had a protective spirit talisman, which prevented me from being injured by sword qi, and I took the opportunity to escape from the Ning Province ancient ruin during the chaos.
或许这遗迹是被什么禁制封印，也可能是阵法掩盖...不过既然知道了这些特征，去各派打听一番应该就能有所收获了。¤Perhaps this relic has been sealed by some restrictions, or it may be concealed by an array... but since we know these features, we should be able to learn more by inquiring with different sects.
不错，我也是这么想的。¤Not bad, that's what I think too.
看来你回忆中出现的那座古城废墟，就是传闻中每千年一启的宁州古迹了。¤It seems that the ancient city ruins that appear in your memories are the Ning Province ancient ruins that are said to open once every thousand years.
老头儿，你对这天魔眼可有印象？¤Old man, do you have any impression of the Heavenly Devil's Eye?
若非是他们集体编造了这个谎言，便是当年另有什么连他们都不清楚的隐情，造成了这种误会。¤If it was not a collective fabrication of this lie by them, then there must have been some hidden situation back then that even they were not aware of, causing this misunderstanding.
灭门之仇不可不报...魏老，我定会找出当年御剑门覆灭的真相。¤The grudge of annihilating the clan cannot go unavenged...Old Wei, I will definitely uncover the truth behind the destruction of the Imperial Sword Sect years ago.
但当年若非因为我执意要带回诛仙剑，又何至于被那古神教利用。¤But if back then I hadn't insisted on bringing back the Immortal Sword, how could I have been used by the Ancient God Sect?
其实已经过去这么多年，我早就已经放弃这个念想了。你若是和你师兄一样，能走到飞升这一步，便已是我魏无极此生最大的成就。¤In fact, it has already been so many years, I have long given up this idea. If you can reach the step of ascension like your senior brother, it will be the greatest achievement of my life as Wuji.
轩儿能够走到这一步，我确实为他感到骄傲。¤Xuan'er has come this far, and I am really proud of him.
那时我并不知其为何物，只觉既以如此繁复的阵法封印之物必定不是凡品，便尝试以灵气激活此剑，试图破开那浓厚的煞气。¤At that time, I did not know what it was, but I felt that since such a complex array was used to seal it, it must not be an ordinary item. So I tried to activate the sword with spiritual energy, attempting to break through the thick murderous aura.
现在想来，若那煞气凶戾到足以令人心境混乱，或许当时我也受到了一定的影响。¤Looking back now, if that murderous intent was fierce enough to cause someone's mental state to become chaotic, perhaps I was also affected to some extent at that time.
你若是和你师兄一样，能走到飞升这一步，便已是我魏无极此生最大的成就。¤If you can reach the step of ascension like your senior brother, it would be the greatest achievement of my life as Wei Wuji.
那御剑门便是我千余年前创立的门派，其规模在当年也算是颇为风光。¤The Imperial Sword Sect is the sect I founded over a thousand years ago, and its size was quite impressive at that time.
不仅如此，你仔细看，这个大阵只有一个阵眼，却布置了八个阵脚。¤Moreover, if you look closely, there is only one eye in this grand formation, yet it is arranged with eight feet.
哈哈哈，这你就不懂了。据说有些阵法最初便是远古修士观察妖兽天生带有的灵纹才领悟出来的，如果真有什么海兽领悟出了一套独特的布阵方式，也完全在情理之中嘛。¤Hahaha, you don't understand this. It is said that some formations were originally discovered by ancient cultivators who observed the natural spirit patterns on spirit beasts. If there is a sea beast that has comprehended a unique array method, it is completely understandable.
……算了，在这胡乱猜测也于事无补，还是继续赶路吧。¤...forget it, speculating randomly is of no use. Let's just continue on our way.
你顺藤摸瓜在附近的海域搜寻了一番，果然在海底又发现了好几块摆放方式类似的黑岩。¤Okay... you searched the nearby waters by following the vine and indeed discovered several black rocks with similar placement patterns on the seabed.
若是一人操控，除非有极强的分神术，不然恐怕只有生出三头六臂才能操控这个阵法。¤If one person controls it, unless they have extremely strong distraction skills, they will probably need to grow three heads and six arms to control this array.
若是上古手法岂会留到现在？这阵法看起来确实废弃了有些年头，但最多也不过千年罢了。我倒是觉得，这阵法不像是人类修士布下的...¤If it were an ancient technique, how could it still exist today? This array does appear to have been abandoned for some years, but at most it is only a few thousand years. I personally feel that this array does not seem to have been set up by human cultivators...
确实，我也研究过不少阵法，却从未见过这么奇怪的布阵方式...难道是什么上古遗留的特殊手法？¤Indeed, I have studied many arrays, but I have never seen such a strange formation... Could it be some special ancient technique left behind?
害，我对阵法什么的可是一窍不通，你说的这些到底意味着啥？¤Ah, I know nothing about arrays and such. What do all these things you're talking about mean?
但若不是一人操控，通常也会设置多个阵眼，没必要只设置一个……¤But if not controlled by one person, usually multiple array eyes will be set up, there is no need to set only one...
奇怪，这些黑岩看上去不像天然形成的，倒像是有什么人用这些石头在海底布置阵法，真是闻所未闻...¤Strange, these black rocks do not look naturally formed, but rather like someone used these stones to arrange an array under the sea. Unheard of...
不是人类...难不成还是海兽？¤Not human...could it be a sea beast?
海兽布下的？你怎么越说越瘆人了。¤Sea beast's setup? Why do you sound more and more creepy.
潮水退去，只见礁石滩上露出了几块摆放规律的黑岩石块。仔细看去，岩石上还铭刻着一些看不懂的图案与纹路。¤The tide receded, revealing several neatly arranged blocks of black rocks on the rocky beach. Upon closer inspection, there were also inscriptions and patterns on the rocks that were difficult to understand.
不管怎么说，这阵法倒的确值得研究一番。我去把这些黑岩上铭刻的纹路都记下来，说不定会有一些新的感悟...¤Anyway, this array is definitely worth studying. I'll go and memorize the patterns engraved on these black rocks. Maybe I will have some new enlightenments...
咳咳...老夫的意思是，这阵法恐怕不是人类修士布下的...¤Cough cough...what I mean is, this array formation is probably not set up by human cultivators...
这无尽之海上的海兽确实凶悍暴戾，但绝大部分即便修炼到元婴期，也没有什么灵智。要说有能力布下阵法的，无非也就是龙族或是吞云蟒这些天赋异禀，灵智极高的类型了。¤The sea beasts on this endless sea are indeed ferocious and violent, but the vast majority of them, even if they cultivate to the Nascent Soul stage, do not have much intelligence. Those with the ability to set up arrays are nothing more than talents like the Dragon Clan or the Cloud Swallowing Boa, with extremely high intelligence.
由于动作太快，他也没有看清那是什么触手。只是猜测，那“幽厄”的本体可能是一只特殊的章鱼或者水母。¤Due to the rapid movement, he did not see clearly what the tentacle was. He only guessed that the entity of apotropaic magic might be a special octopus or jellyfish.
正是在下，敢问前辈有何贵干？¤It is me. May I ask what senior is currently doing?
原来如此...当下确有一事相求。¤So it is… I do have a request to make at the moment.
总之，这“幽厄”极为强大，不然我们也不会拿出逆天造化术作为报酬了。¤In any case, this apotropaic magic is extremely powerful, otherwise we wouldn't offer defying good fortune as compensation.
若前辈还有什么想知道的，想必岛主会给出一个满意的答案。¤If Senior has any further questions, Island Master will surely provide a satisfactory answer.
这点小事便劳烦前辈出手，确实有损前辈威名。此事便由我等自行解决罢。¤This small matter troubles senior to take action, it does indeed damage senior's reputation. We will handle this matter on our own.
只见向之恒脸色微沉。¤I saw Mukai Tsune's face darken slightly.
在下{FirstName}{LastName}，为{color=#d0380a}逆天造化术{/color}而来，道友可愿指点一二？¤I am {FirstName}{LastName}, here for the technique of {color=#d0380a}defying good fortune{/color}. Fellow daoist, are you willing to give some guidance?
好！前辈可是帮阴魂岛做成了一件大事！¤Okay! Senior has accomplished a great task for Ghost Island!
这“幽厄”神出鬼没，整个幽冥海都是它的狩猎范围。所以在此事发生后，愿意去幽冥海寻找神阴石的魂体也越来越少。¤The 'apotropaic magic' is elusive, and the entire deep hell sea is its hunting grounds. Therefore, after this incident, fewer and fewer 'soul bodies' willing to search for the 'shenyin stone' in the underworld.
只见一众灵魂体神色复杂地望着你。¤I saw a group of soul bodies looking at you with complex expressions.
几百年前，{color=#d0380a}幽冥海{/color}上便开始有魂体陆续失踪。当时谁也不知道原因，只说是被“幽厄”抓跑了。¤A few hundred years ago, soul bodies began to disappear one by one on the {color=#d0380a}deep hell sea{/color}. At that time, no one knew the reason, only that they were captured and taken away by apotropaic magic.
本座为逆天造化术而来，这三冥海上出了什么乱子，需要本座出手？¤I have come for the Defying Good Fortune technique, what kind of trouble has occurred in the Three Dark Seas that requires my intervention?
也罢，本来就不是寻常人能完成的任务，此番还是辛苦道友了。¤Anyway, this was not a task that an ordinary person could complete. Fellow daoist, it was still hard work this time.
那在下便静候前辈佳音了。¤That being the case, I will await senior's good news in peace.
道友便是向之恒了？¤Is fellow daoist Mukai Tsune?
你将那“幽厄”的妖丹亮了出来。¤You revealed the 'apotropaic magic' demon core.
阴气旋不远处，一群灵魂体围着一个较为凝实的灵魂体，似乎在商议着什么事情。¤Not far from the yin cyclone, a group of soul bodies surrounded a more solid soul body, seemingly discussing something.
…道友有所不知，它神识极强，可谓是灵魂体的天敌，我们实在不愿招惹于它。¤Fellow daoist may not know, its soul sense is extremely strong, it can be called the natural enemy of the soul body, we really don't want to provoke it.
若道友还有什么想知道的，想必岛主会给出一个满意的答案。¤If Fellow Daoist has any further questions, Island Lord will surely provide a satisfactory answer.
前辈前去岛主处，即可领取逆天造化术。¤Senior, go to the island master to receive the Defying Good Fortune Technique.
阁下既然已经获取了逆天造化术，这五块神阴石便交予阁下，去岛主那换些东西罢。¤Since you have obtained Defying Good Fortune technique, these five Shenyin Stones are to be given to you, exchange them with the Island Master for some goods.
只见向之恒脸色闪过一丝不悦，随即又恢复了笑脸。¤I saw a hint of displeasure on Mukai Tsune's face, but then he quickly recovered his smile.
多谢道友。若有机会，我定会前往{color=#d0380a}幽冥海{/color}一探究竟。¤Thank you fellow daoist. If there's a chance, I will definitely go to the deep hell sea to find out what's going on.
关于这“幽厄”，可还有其他线索？¤Do you have any other clues about this 'apotropaic magic'?
阁下可有办成此事？¤Do you have a way to accomplish this, sir?
若前辈能够除掉这“幽厄”，便算是为我岛做了一件大事，逆天造化术自然也双手奉上。¤If senior can get rid of this 'apotropaic magic', it would be considered a great contribution to our island, and the defying good fortune technique will naturally be presented with both hands.
此乃幽厄之妖丹。凭借此物，足以证明一切了吧？¤This is the demon core of apotropaic magic. With this, everything can be proven, right?
原来如此，在下确有一事相求。¤Originally, I do have a request from you, sir.
阁下只需将此事告知岛主李司魂，便可领取逆天造化术。¤You only need to inform Island Lord Lee Soul about this matter, and you can receive the Defying Good Fortune Technique.
此乃幽厄之妖丹。凭借此物，足以证明我完成了任务吧？¤This is the demon core of apotropaic magic. With this item, can it prove that I have completed the quest?
前辈既然已经获取了逆天造化术，这五块神阴石便交予前辈，去岛主那换些东西罢。¤Since senior has already obtained the defying good fortune technique, these five shenyin stones will be handed over to senior to trade for some things from the island master.
嗯，知道了。¤Um, understood.
若阁下能够除掉这“幽厄”，便算是为我岛做了一件大事，逆天造化术自然也双手奉上。¤If you can eliminate this apotropaic magic, it would be considered a great achievement for our island, and the defying good fortune technique will be offered as well.
此事并非燃眉之急。阁下若没有足够的实力，切莫轻易前往，以免丢了性命。¤This is not an urgent matter. If you do not have enough strength, do not go lightly, lest you lose your life.
十几年前，有魂体目击了“幽厄”袭击的动作——从海底突然伸出一根触手，将低空飞行的一名魂体瞬间吸嗜殆尽。¤Over a decade ago, a soul body witnessed the action of an apotropaic magic attack a tentacle suddenly stretched out from the sea and instantly sucked dry a soul body flying at low altitude.
好！阁下可是帮阴魂岛做成了一件大事！¤Okay! Senior, you have helped Ghost Island accomplish a great matter!
不错，敢问阁下是？¤Not bad, may I ask who you are?
请问，道友便是向之恒么？¤May I ask, Fellow Daoist, are you Mukai Tsune?
不同于五行门派，玄道宗的山门只有一位金丹修士在此闭目修炼。你不想打搅他，便想绕至旁边而去。¤Unlike the Five Elements sect, there is only one Golden Core cultivator practicing with closed eyes at the entrance of the Xuan Dao sect's mountain gate. You do not want to disturb him, so you think about bypassing him from the side.
请问前辈来我玄道宗何事？¤May I ask senior, what brings you to my Xuan Dao Sect?
信物有么？¤Do you have a token?
你是...¤You are...
对，我奉{$BaiDi}之命，欲往天魔眼调查，特来玄道宗知会一声。¤Yes, I am sent by {$BaiDi} to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye and have come to inform Xuan Dao Sect.
话说回来，{FirstName}{$DaoYou1}，你之前可是提到天魔眼？¤Speaking of which, {FirstName}{$DaoYou1}, didn't you mention the Heavenly Devil's Eye before?
前辈当时还曾赠予我秘术气沉丹田，想来我能结成高品金丹而后修炼进步神速还多亏了前辈。¤Senior once gave me the secret arts of qi sinking into the dantian, thanks to which I was able to form a high-grade golden core and cultivate quickly.
何事？¤What's the matter?
可老祖最近不在宗门内，在下也不能擅作主张，可否请{$DaoYou1}等上一段时间？¤Grand Ancestor has been away from the clan recently, and as a member of the clan, I cannot make decisions on my own. Can {$DaoYou1} please wait for a period of time?
几百年不见，你还停留在金丹境...唉，修行不易，倒也正常。¤Haven't seen you in hundreds of years, you're still stuck at the golden core stage... sigh, cultivation is difficult, but it's normal.
我当初在逸风城擂台取胜从而成为宁王府供奉，之后又在误打误撞之下遇到前辈，应要求监视魔教妖女。但追查过程中险些遭天魔道长老灭口，还是前辈从魔修手里救下我。¤I won in the arena in Yifeng City and became a guest elder of Ning King's Manor. Later, I accidentally encountered a senior and was asked to monitor a demon girl of the Heavenly Demon Cult. During the investigation, I was almost silenced by the Heavenly Demon Cult Elder, but the senior rescued me from the hands of the demonic cultivator.
{$DaoYou1}放心，在下领会得。¤Don't worry, Daoist {$DaoYou1}, I understand.
前辈当时赠与的补灵丹对我修行之路大有裨益，一直想感谢前辈。¤The qi caller pills that the senior bestowed upon me at the time have greatly benefited my cultivation journey, I have always wanted to express gratitude to the senior.
这倒没有，但既然让我来调查，想必{$BaiDi}不会事出无由。¤There is none, but since I am here to investigate, {$BaiDi} must have a reason.
数百年前，我在逸风城擂台取胜从而成为宁王府供奉，之后又在误打误撞之下获知宁王勾结魔修，将供奉炼为丹药以延寿增修的真相，险些遭魔教长老灭口。当时还是前辈从魔修手里救下我。¤Hundreds of years ago, I won in the arena in Yifeng City and became a guest elder in Ning King's Manor. Later, I accidentally discovered the truth that Ning King was colluding with demonic cultivators to use guest elders as pills for longevity and cultivation. I was almost silenced by the elders of the demonic sect. At that time, a senior rescued me from the hands of the demonic cultivators.
进入核心区事关重大，历来是即便有信物也需向混元子老祖请示。¤Entering the core area is a major issue and even if there is proof, it always requires permission from the Primordial Child ancestor.
你一脸不快地从储物袋中掏出此前凌轩给你的信物递给他，后者显然是识货的，扫了两眼后又丢还于你。至于之前的嘲笑，却是闭口不谈。¤You unhappily took out the token that Ling Xuan had given you from the storage pouch and handed it to him. The latter clearly recognized it and after glancing at it twice, returned it to you. As for the previous ridicule, he remained silent.
大殿正中，一位白袍修士正于此等候，料想便是所谓的葛师叔了。¤In the center of the hall, a white-caped cultivator was waiting, presumably the so-called Senior Ge.
来玄道宗何事？¤What business brings you to Xuan Dao Sect?
葛{$DaoYou},我奉{$BaiDi}之命，欲往天魔眼调查，还请行个方便。¤Ge {$DaoYou}, by the orders of {$BaiDi}, I am going to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye. Please grant me your assistance.
玄道宗大殿乍一看与五行门派也大差不差，并不会因为门人倨傲就装饰得更为奢华。¤At first glance, the Xuan Dao Sect's main hall is not much different from the sects of the Five Elements, and it is not decorated more luxuriously because of the arrogance of its disciples.
你看眼前这人有些眼熟，可不正是当年宁王府遇见的那位身着白衣的前辈。¤You see this person in front of you, somewhat familiar. Isn't he the senior wearing the white dress that was met at Ning King's Manor years ago?
唔...天魔眼么...¤Hmm... Heavenly Devil's Eye...
劳烦编身份也编一个像话一点的，哈哈哈。¤Sorry to trouble you to create a more conversational identity, ha ha ha.
前辈当时赠与的法宝乌靴对我修行之路大有裨益，一直想感谢前辈。¤The artifact black boots that senior gifted me at the time greatly benefited my cultivation path, and I have always wanted to thank senior.
{$DaoYou1}临行时，白帝可还有其他相关交代？¤Before leaving, does the White Emperor have any other relevant instructions for {$DaoYou1}?
{size=24}信物倒是真的，不过我可不信白帝会有这么个金丹师弟。算了，跟我也没什么关系，就交给葛师叔分辨吧。{/size}¤{size=24}The token is indeed real, but I don't believe that the White Emperor would have a junior with a Golden Core. Anyway, it's not my concern. I'll leave it to Senior Ge to discern. {/size}
不敢，在下不过元婴修士，怎当得起阁下口中的“前辈”二字。¤mentioned by you, sir.
进入核心区事关重大，所以即便有信物历来也需向混元子老祖请示。¤Entering the core area is of great importance, so even with proof of identity, permission must be obtained from the Primordial Child Ancestor.
你早就听闻玄道宗修士自恃门派强大，面对其他修士时有些盛气凌人，再加上有事在身于是没有太在意他的态度，只是退回山门前。¤You have long heard that Xuan Dao Sect cultivators are arrogant towards other cultivators due to their powerful sect. As you have your own business to attend to, you didn't pay much attention to his attitude and simply retreated back to the sect's entrance.
几百年不见，如今你都是元婴境修士，与在下已无差距，真是后生可畏啊。¤Haven't seen each other for hundreds of years, now you are a nascent soul stage cultivator, no longer inferior to me, truly impressive.
你拿出此前凌轩交给你的信物递给他，后者也是在扫了一眼后丢换给你。¤You take out the token that Ling Xuan gave you earlier and hand it to him, and he glances at it before tossing it back to you.
前辈请进，葛师叔将会大殿等候前辈。¤Senior, please come in. Elder Ge will be waiting for you in the main hall.
见你说得信誓旦旦，这白袍修士好像是想起来什么，但又不敢肯定。¤Seeing you speak so confidently, this white-caped cultivator seems to remember something, but he's not certain.
可...老祖他最近不知在忙何事久不示人，{$DaoYou1}可否等上几月？¤However, the Patriarch has been busy with unknown matters and has not revealed himself for a long time. Can you wait for a few months, {$DaoYou1}?
进去吧，葛师叔在大殿等你，有什么事跟他说。¤Go in, Senior Ge is waiting for you in the main hall. If you have anything to say, talk to him.
这...好像确有此事...¤This... seems to be true...
{FirstName}{$DaoYou1}，您之前提到天魔眼？¤{FirstName}{$DaoYou1}, you mentioned the Heavenly Devil's Eye earlier?
葛{$DaoYou},我奉{$BaiDi}之命...¤Ge {$DaoYou}, I am acting under the orders of {$BaiDi}...
你早就听闻玄道宗修士自恃门派强大，面对其他修士时有些盛气凌人，再加上有事在身于是没有太在意他的态度。¤You have long heard that Xuan Dao Sect cultivators pride themselves on the strength of their sect, and can be somewhat domineering when facing other cultivators. In addition, you had other matters at hand, so did not pay too much attention to his attitude.
老祖临行前曾特地吩咐，此行事关重要，若非紧要事件切勿打扰。而且每20年便会检视修复一次，天魔眼在玄道宗的看守及维护下，已是稳定了数千年，现下又无相关迹象表明天魔眼面临危机，只怕是不太方便联系...¤Before the departure of the Patriarch, he specifically instructed that this journey was of utmost importance and should not be disturbed unless it is an urgent matter. Moreover, every 20 years, it will be inspected and repaired. Under the care and maintenance of the Xuan Dao Sect, the Heavenly Devil's Eye has been stable for thousands of years. Currently, there are no signs indicating that the Heavenly Devil's Eye is facing any crisis. It may not be convenient to contact...
白帝楼有些事要与贵派的混元子长老商量。¤The White Emperor Pavilion needs to discuss something with your sect's Elder Primordial Child.
你正欲拾级而上却被一奇形法宝挡住去路，回头再看时，这金丹修士还是坐于山门前，只是已经张开眼睛正看着你。¤You were about to climb the steps but were blocked by a strange artifact. When you turned back to look, the cultivator with the golden core was still sitting in front of the mountain gate, but had opened his eyes and was looking at you.
嘁，去吧，葛师叔在大殿等你，有什么事跟他说。¤Tsk, go ahead. Senior Ge is waiting for you in the main hall. If you have anything to say, tell him.
前辈，请问来玄道宗有何事？¤Senior, may I ask what brings you to Xuan Dao Sect?
道友当时赠与的补灵丹对我修行之路大有裨益，还要多谢葛道友。¤Fellow Daoist's gift of Qi Caller Pills has greatly aided my cultivation path. Thank you again, Ge Fellow Daoist.
是晚辈见识短浅了，前辈请进，葛师叔将会在大殿等候前辈。¤I have limited knowledge, please come in senior. Master Ge will be waiting for you in the main hall.
你拿出此前凌轩交给你的信物，在他眼前晃了晃。¤You take out the token that Ling Xuan gave you earlier and wave it in front of him.
以现在的修为差距，这声前辈在下可不敢当，若是不嫌弃，称呼一声葛小友或葛道友便已是在下的荣幸了。¤With the current gap in cultivation, this senior cannot accept such a title from me. However, if you don't mind, calling me Young Friend Ge or Fellow Daoist Ge would be an honor for me.
这才数百年你竟已臻至吾辈修仙者所追求的化神境，而在下却还在元婴期聊无精进，真是后生可畏，后生可畏啊。¤In just a few hundred years, you have already reached the deity transformation realm that we as cultivators aspire to, while I am still stagnating in the nascent soul stage. Truly awe-inspiring, truly awe-inspiring.
我当初在逸风城擂台取胜从而成为宁王府供奉，之后又在误打误撞之下获知宁王勾结魔修将供奉炼为丹药以延寿增修的真相，险些遭天魔道长老灭口。当时还是前辈从魔修手里救下我。¤I won in the arena in Yifeng City and became a guest elder in Ning King's Manor. Later, I accidentally discovered that the Ning King was colluding with demonic cultivators to refine guest elders into pills for longevity and cultivation enhancement. I almost became a victim of the heavenly demon cult elder's cover-up. At that time, a senior rescued me from the hands of the demonic cultivators.
葛小友，我奉{$BaiDi}之命，欲往天魔眼调查，特来玄道宗知会一声。¤Ge Xiaoyou, I have been tasked by {$BaiDi} to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye, and have come to inform Xuan Dao Sect.
事了之后前辈还曾赠予我秘术气沉丹田作为报酬，想来我当初能成功结丹还多亏了前辈。¤After the matter was settled, the senior also gave me secret arts and qi sink as a reward. I think I was able to successfully form my core thanks to the senior.
道友止步¤Fellow daoist, please stop here.
你冷漠地点点头，而后便进入玄道宗山门。¤You nodded indifferently and then entered the gate of Xuan Dao Sect.
你有些不满，但还是拿出此前凌轩交给你的信物，在他眼前晃了晃。这玄道宗修士显然算是识货的，一转之前傲慢的态度，满脸堆笑。¤You are a bit dissatisfied, but still took out the token Lin Xuan gave you and shook it in front of him. The Xuan Dao Sect cultivator clearly recognized its value, and his previously arrogant attitude turned into a smiling face.
在下想起来，离火门的炎萧炎道友前不久才进入过天魔眼核心区域，{$DaoYou1}不如先去询问一番炎道友，若有迹象表明天魔眼封印出了任何差池，在下斗胆作主陪{$DaoYou1}进天魔眼调查。可好？¤I recall that Yan Xiao from the Fire Gate Sect recently entered the core area of the Heavenly Devil's Eye. How about we first ask fellow daoist Yan about any signs of problems with the seal of the Heavenly Devil's Eye? If there are any issues, I would daringly suggest accompanying {$DaoYou1} to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye. Is that alright?
可老祖最近不在宗门内，我也不能擅作主张，可否请{$DaoYou1}等上一段时间？¤Grand Ancestor is currently not in the clan, and I cannot make decisions without permission. Could {$DaoYou1} please wait for some time?
道友当时赠与的法宝乌靴对我修行之路大有裨益，还要多谢葛道友。¤The artifact of black boots that fellow daoist gifted me at that time has greatly benefited my cultivation path. Thank you, fellow daoist Ge.
为何不用传音符联系？¤Why not use sound talisman to communicate?
听你说完这人先是愣了一愣，但旋即便反应过来。¤After listening to what you said, the person was momentarily stunned but quickly reacted.
前辈可还记得数百年前宁王府之事？¤Senior, do you still remember the incident at Ning King's Manor hundreds of years ago?
呵，我修炼数百年连白帝的师承都未曾听人提起，只怕几百年前早已飞升或是故去，怎会有你这金丹期的师弟？¤Hmm, I have cultivated for hundreds of years and have never heard anyone mention being a disciple of the White Emperor. I am afraid that he may have ascended or passed away hundreds of years ago. How could there be a junior of the Golden Core stage like you?
好像确有此事...¤Seems like this is indeed the case...
你平淡地回应一声，同时迈步前往玄道宗大殿。¤You simply responded with a plain okay and walked towards the main hall of the Xuan Dao Sect.
前辈请前往大殿，葛师叔在那等候前辈，有什么事情请和他交流。¤Senior, please go to the main hall. Elder Ge is waiting for you there. If you have anything, please communicate with him.
你是当初那个筑基修士...¤You are the foundation building cultivator from back then...
白帝的师弟？我可从未听闻白帝还有师弟。¤White Emperor's junior? I have never heard of White Emperor having a junior.
你正欲拾级而上却有人声从后方传来，转身看时，那金丹修士正恭敬地站在原地。¤You were about to ascend the steps when a voice came from behind. Turning around, you saw the cultivator standing there respectfully.
你正欲拾级而上却被一奇形法宝挡住去路，回头再看时，这金丹修士还是闭目坐于山门前，连坐姿都未曾有变化，只是退回山门前。¤You were about to climb the steps but you were blocked by a strange artifact. When you looked back, the cultivator with the golden core was still sitting with his eyes closed in front of the mountain gate, without any change in posture, only retreating in front of the gate.
（是他？）¤(Is it him?)
各位道友，我们可是有什么误会？¤Fellow Daoists, do we have any misunderstandings?
远处一阵阵剧烈的灵气波动，似是有什么阵法激活了。¤In the distance, there were intense fluctuations of spiritual energy coming in waves, as if a certain array had been activated.
这么说来，最近本门失踪的师兄弟都是你们所为了？¤Speaking of which, is it true that you were responsible for the recent disappearance of our senior brothers and sisters in the sect?
没误会，找的就是你们玄古门，丹药和血菩提都交出出来。我们可以考虑放你们一马。¤No misunderstanding, we are looking for your Profound Ancient Sect. Hand over the pills and blood bodhi fruits. We can consider letting you go.
没错，反正就让你做个明白鬼。¤Correct, just let you become a wise ghost.
一行人被困于阵法之中，为首的元婴修士将宗门后辈护于身后。¤A group of people are trapped within an array, with the leading nascent soul cultivator protecting the younger members of the clan behind them.
正好我也想要试试我的新成果。¤Okay... I also happen to want to test out my new achievement.
又来只肥羊。¤Here comes another fat sheep.
（我就先解决这布阵之人吧。）¤(I'll take care of the one who set up this formation first.)
你是离火门弟子，不若你问问炎萧吧。¤You are a fire gate disciple, why don't you ask Yan Xiao?
你还有什么想问的吗？¤Do you have any other questions?
具体我也不太清楚，不过据说炎萧为其求情，倒是留下一条性命。¤Specifically, I am not too clear, but it is said that Yan Xiao pleaded for him, and he was spared his life.
金丹长老？已经发现叛徒了？¤Golden core elder? Did you already discover the traitor?
前辈，走好。¤Senior, farewell.
没想到此次，离火门有金丹长老叛变，倒是费了一些手脚，所幸我回来的及时，要不然是我的失职啊。¤Unexpectedly, the Fire Gate Sect had a Golden Core Elder betray them this time, which caused some trouble. Fortunately, I came back in time, otherwise it would have been my negligence.
{xiaozi}，学艺不精啊，我才走开这两步险些出事。¤{xiaozi}, you're not skilled enough. I almost got into trouble just by taking two steps away.
是的，其中一路人马漏出破绽，对方想跑，还好我们早有准备，已经拿下了。¤Yes, one of the groups showed a flaw and the enemy tried to escape, but thankfully we were prepared and already captured them.
此次你功不可没，这是结丹秘术《大周天吐纳》。¤This time, your contribution is indispensible. This is the secret skill of dan array 《great circumstance exhalation》.
受死吧！¤Die!
我先走了，这《大周天吐纳》，你细细参悟对结丹大有裨益啊。¤I'm leaving now. This great circumstance exhalation could greatly benefit your core cultivation if you carefully contemplate it.
道友，告辞。¤Fellow daoist, goodbye.
又是古神教的家伙，“老熟人了啊”¤Another person from the Ancient God Sect, 'Old acquaintance, huh?'
没想到此次，离火门有金丹长老叛变，倒是费了一些手脚，所幸你这边没有出差错，要不然是我的失职啊。¤Unexpectedly, there was a golden core elder betrayal in the Fire Gate Sect this time, which caused some trouble, but fortunately, there were no mistakes on your side. Otherwise, it would have been my dereliction of duty.
对了，那火麟玉是离火门的奖励，你不用还了。¤By the way, the Fire-Lynx Jade is a reward from the Fire Gate Sect, so you don't need to return it.
妖人尔敢？¤Dare you, demon?
（三才剑？呼~终于到了）¤(Three Essences Sword? Phew~ Finally arrived)
不错，已经独自斩杀了魔教妖人。¤Not bad, I have already single-handedly killed the demonic cult's monster.
一股螺旋而出的剑光，“唰”的穿胸而过。¤A spiraling sword beam shot out, shua piercing through the chest.
这广陵城有内外两道围墙，内墙有阵法加持，所以相对安全不少。¤This Guangling City has two walls, inner and outer, with an array protecting the inner wall, making it relatively much safer.
这广陵城港口便是通往无尽之海，据说这海里的妖兽都有数万年修为，就连一般的金丹期修士也不敢随意招惹。¤This Guangling City Port is a gateway to The Endless Sea, where it's said that the Spirit Beasts in the sea have cultivations of tens of thousands of years. Even ordinary Golden Core cultivators dare not provoke them lightly.
外墙就危险多了，听说每次来兽潮都会死不少人呢。¤The exterior wall is much more dangerous. I heard that many people die every time the beast tide comes.
不过，下一场就是决赛了要和“竹剑”温杰对上了，我竹山宗少有的剑修一脉的传人啊。¤However, the next match is the finals and I will face Bamboo Sword Wen Jie. I am one of the rare sword cultivators in the Bamboo Mountain Sect's lineage.
{FirstName}{shixiong}三战连胜，不愧是大比魁首，这届魁首已经是囊中之物了。¤{FirstName} shixiong has won three consecutive battles, truly living up to the title of the top contender in the competition. This year's championship is already in their grasp.
哈哈，什么承让你本就比我强，下一场你的对手是林怀蕊，小心了啊。¤Haha, you already have more abilities than I do, your next opponent is Lin Huairui, be careful.
我本以为凭借着《五毒噬心决》，能一举夺魁，现在看来我还是不行啊。¤I thought that with the Five Poison Eater Heart Technique , I could win easily, but now it seems that I still can't.
本届大比没什么名人参加，{FirstName}{shixiong}胜算更大。¤This year's competition doesn't have many famous contestants, and {FirstName} is more likely to win.
{FirstName}{shixiong}竟能连战连胜。¤{FirstName} shixiong was able to win consecutive battles.
对方点头致意后，祭出一柄飞剑，虽只是符器，但一股锐利的剑意扑面而来。¤After nodding in acknowledgement, the other party summoned a flying sword. Although it was just a runic weapon, a sharp sword intent wafted towards them.
{shidi}，请。¤{shidi}, please.
下一次比试，{FirstName}\r{LastName}对阵温杰！¤In the next competition, {FirstName} {LastName} will face Wen Jie!
XXX对阵林怀蕊！¤XXX is facing Lin Huairui!
林师姐可是天灵根，精通术法我觉得本次大比魁首非她莫属。¤Senior Sister Lin is a sky spirit root cultivator, proficient in magical arts. I think she is the most suitable to be the champion of this competition.
{FirstName}{shixiong}三战连胜，说不定可以争夺魁首之位。¤{FirstName} shixiong has won three consecutive battles, perhaps he can contend for the top spot.
多谢师兄承让。¤Thank you, senior brother, for your kind offer.
（最后一场了。）¤(This is the last one.)
（这小子对我胃口，若是能赢下那女娃娃，不妨收他入门下。）¤This kid suits my taste. If he can defeat that girl, I may as well take him as my disciple.
我会注意的¤I will pay attention.
的确，本届大比没什么名人参加，{FirstName}{shixiong}胜算很大。¤Indeed, there aren't many celebrities participating in this year's competition, {FirstName} shixiong stands a great chance of winning.
师兄，请指教。¤Senior brother, please guide me.
咳咳咳...可惜，输在了这里...¤Cough cough... Unfortunately, I lost here...
你第一次参与宗门大比，就打入了决赛，台下众人议论纷纷...¤On your first participation in the clan competition, you entered the finals and the audience below talked about it in succession...
连墨师兄都败了，此人恐怖如斯。林师姐和他相比也不知孰强孰弱。¤Even Senior Brother Lian Mo was defeated, this person is terrifying. Senior Sister Lin doesn't know who is stronger or weaker compared to him.
请{FirstName}\r{LastName}上台对阵！¤Please welcome {FirstName}\r{LastName} to the stage for the showdown!
也不知这一战鹿死谁手。¤It is unknown who will emerge victorious from this battle.
倒也是。¤It is also true.
我觉得温师兄更强，剑修之名可不是吹的。¤I feel that Senior Brother Wen is stronger, the name of Sword Cultivator is not just for show.
一夜过去，在天机阁的专人治疗下，你的状态已经恢复如初。¤After one night, under the care of the dedicated personnel at the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion, your status has been completely recovered.
{FirstName}{shidi}，请去台下稍作休息，稍后开始第二轮的比试。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, please take a rest offstage for a while. The second round of the competition will start shortly.
你干净利落地赢下了第一轮比试的胜利。¤You cleanly and efficiently won the victory in the first round of the competition.
没想到第一轮就败了...¤I didn't expect to lose in the first round...
请{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}上台！¤Please {FirstName}{LastName}{shidi} come up to the stage!
这么多功法……能给点建议吗？¤So many techniques... any suggestions?
修习自己灵气亲和的功法，总能事半功倍。每种功法要修炼到深处都是耗时费力的，有时不如都学个大概，够用就好。¤Practicing a technique that is in tune with one's own spiritual energy can achieve greater results with less effort. It takes considerable time and effort to master any technique thoroughly, so it may be more practical to learn a general understanding of many techniques instead.
弟子在修炼本门功法还是有些许不解，不知授业长老可否解惑？¤The disciple has some doubts about cultivating our sect's techniques. Would the instructor elder be able to clarify?
或是因为厚积薄发，短短数日她竟提升了一个小境界。¤Or perhaps due to her accumulation of knowledge and experience, she managed to advance a small realm in just a few days.
你看到一名弟子盘膝而坐，似是进入了顿悟状态。你示意左右弟子不要打扰她，并为他护法。¤You see a disciple sitting cross-legged, seeming to have entered a state of enlightenment. You signal to the disciples around not to disturb her and stand guard for her.
等了一段时间，见人来的差不多了。你便开始讲法。¤After waiting for a period of time, you start to explain the rules when people start to arrive.
看着他们你好像看到了曾经的自己，心神一荡遁入空明。¤Watching them, you seem to see your former self, and your mind is swept away into the empty light.
之后，她盘腿坐下进入了顿悟的状态，¤Afterwards, she crossed her legs and entered a state of enlightenment.
我身为授业长老自是分内之事。¤As an instructor elder, it is my duty to do so.
台下弟子皆拱手拜谢。¤The disciples below the stage all bowed and thanked him.
有事吗？¤Is there something wrong?
多谢长老~¤Thank you elder~
嗯，我作为授业长老也是分内之事。¤Ah, me acting as an instructor elder is also part of my duty.
你时而妙语生机口生莲花，时而掐指施法此方灵气因你而动。¤At times, your words are like vitalizing lotus flowers blooming from your lips; at other times, you manipulate the energy of this world with your finger movements.
此女倒是有几分慧根。¤This girl has some intelligence.
嗯，无需挂心，我还有别的事先走了。¤Well, don't worry, I have other things to attend to first.
好了，此次讲法就到这里吧，你们自己下去细细体悟。¤Okay, that's all for this explanation of the rules. Go and reflect on it yourselves.
台下弟子或若有所思，或皱眉参悟。¤The disciples below the stage were either lost in thought or frowning in contemplation.
{shixiong}要开始讲法么？¤Is {shixiong} going to start explaining the rules?
呼~¤Phew~
你也盘膝坐下，一边修炼一边为其护法。¤You also sit cross-legged and cultivate while protecting it.
呼~多谢长老授业解惑之恩。¤Sigh~ Thank you Elder for your teachings and guidance.
她将自己几个修炼的问题向你提出，这些问题都被你一一解答。¤She raised several questions about her cultivation and you answered them all one by one.
哦？¤Oh?
你看到广场已经聚集了不少本门弟子，显然他们是来参加你讲法的。¤You see that the square has already gathered many disciples from our sect, evidently they have come to attend your explanation of the rules.
恭送长老。¤Farewell elder.
她睁开双眼看了看左右，立刻明白是你为她护法。¤She opened her eyes and looked around, immediately understanding that you were protecting her.
这个暗道极为隐秘，若没有金丹实力，入口处的机关绝无可能被发现。¤This secret passage is extremely hidden. Without the strength of the golden core, it is impossible to discover the mechanisms at the entrance.
果然有猫腻...¤Sure enough, there is a trick...
这暗道并不算复杂，只有寥寥数条通道。你没有分散精力，沿着魔气最浓郁的方向探了过去。¤This secret passage is not particularly complicated, with only a few paths. You did not spread your attention and explored along the direction of the thickest magic qi.
只见暗道尽头的房间内，布有一个晦涩诡异的阵法，由一名金丹魔修和数名筑基魔修共同维持。¤I can see in the room at the end of the dark pathway, there is a complicated and mysterious array, maintained by a Golden Core demonic cultivator and several Foundation Building demonic cultivators together.
“他不在洞府内？那他在哪？”¤Is he not in the cave? Then where is he?
趁他们还未反应过来，你便出手除掉了最近的一名筑基魔修。¤While they were still unable to react, you took action and killed the nearest foundation building demonic cultivator.
果然，在一处相当隐秘的地方，你搜索到了一个通往地下的暗道。¤Sure enough, in a rather secluded place, you found a secret passage leading underground.
一众筑基魔修也从暗道口冲了出来，将你团团围住，局势陷入了被动。¤A group of foundation building demonic cultivators also rushed out from the secret passage, surrounding you and putting you in a disadvantageous situation.
就在此时，你突然察觉到背后一阵凉意。¤At this moment, you suddenly felt a cold behind you.
而阵法的中间，赫然坐着一个表情极为痛苦的修士，阵法将他的灵气硬生生从体内抽出，炼化到一颗血色的丹药中。¤In the center of the array sat a cultivator with an extremely painful expression. The array forcefully drew out his spiritual energy and refined it into a bloody pill.
一道黑光攻来，你来不及闪躲，只是堪堪避开了要害，左肩还是被撕开了一道巨大的伤口。¤A black light attacked, and you didn't have time to dodge. You just managed to avoid the vital point, but your left shoulder was still torn with a huge wound.
呵呵，反应倒是不错，不过你带着伤倒是如何同我们斗？¤Hehe, your reaction is not bad, but how can you fight us with your injuries?
这是...魔气？¤Is this...magic qi?
在你隐藏气息之下，他们并没有发现你，这也得以让你取得先机。¤Under your hidden aura, they did not discover you, which allowed you to take the initiative.
触动机关后，一股更为阴森诡异的气息扑面而来。¤After triggering the mechanism, an even more eerie and sinister atmosphere swept over them.
这个洞府不大，看上去极为普通，但奇怪的是，“枯木老祖”却不在其中。¤This cave is not big, it looks very normal, but strangely, Patriarch Deadwood is not there.
你随即展开神识，搜索洞府的每一个角落，试图发现一些线索。¤You immediately activate your soul sense, searching every corner of the cave, trying to find some clues.
{vpunch=10,0.5}这是！？？¤{vpunch=10,0.5}What is this?!
你提起十二分戒备，将神识集中向暗道深处探去。¤You raise your guard to twelve points and concentrate your soul sense towards the depths of the dark passage.
竟然用活人炼化药物？¤Using living beings to refine medicine?
道友既然来了，何再不与在下过上两招？¤Fellow daoist, since you have come, why not exchange a few moves with me?
阁下可敢试试，自己能接在下几招？¤Would you dare to try and see if you can take a few moves from me?
传闻宁州古迹中存余着不少上古阵法，若能加以钻研定对我的阵法之道大有裨益。¤Rumours have it that there are many ancient arrays left in the ancient ruins of Ning Province. If I can study them carefully, it would be greatly beneficial to my understanding of the path of arrays.
听闻宁州古迹内煞气四溢，若心智不坚定便会遭到煞气吞噬...¤I heard that there is a strong demonic aura permeating the Ning Province ancient ruins. Those whose minds are not strong enough will be devoured by the aura.
这无尽之海中的商机可是大得很，海中势力常有修士以物易物，也有些商队需要护送，他们会给完成任务的修士丰厚的报酬。¤The opportunities in this endless sea are very large. There are often cultivators who barter goods in the sea, and some merchant groups require escorts. They will give generous rewards to cultivators who complete their quests.
书架上整齐的放置的玉简，很明显是此间主人留给你的¤The neatly arranged jade slips on the bookshelf are obviously left for you by the owner here.
若是想要淬体必须找到九霄雷狱的空间节点了。¤If one wants to temper their body, they must find the spatial node of the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison.
这位前辈倒是无私，自己这数百年的研究就这么分享给后人了。¤This senior is selfless, sharing their research from the past several hundred years with future generations.
在雷鸣海上击败{color=#d0380a}雷灵{/color}吸收了雷晶之后，本座发现可以和源自九霄雷狱的先天灵气产生某种联系，进而吸收灵气用以锻体。¤After defeating the Thunder Spirit on the Thunder Sea and absorbing the Thunder Crystal, I discovered a connection with the innate spiritual energy originated from the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison. I then absorbed this spiritual energy for body forging.
九霄雷狱乃是一天地异象，存在于一方小世界之中，常人难以察觉，但若是常年奔波于海上未尝不可以捕捉到这一空间节点进入其中。¤Jiuxiao Lei Prison is a phenomenon of heaven and earth, existing in a small world that is difficult for ordinary people to perceive. However, if one travels on the sea for years, they may be able to capture this spatial node and enter it.
这上面记载一种在九霄雷狱中锻体的功法，可以在九霄雷狱中承受天雷吸收先天之气，直到达承受极限完成锻体。¤This records a technique for body forging in the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison, which allows absorption of Heavenly Lightning and innate energy until reaching the limit and completing body forging.
根据我的推断，九霄雷狱中的先天灵气极难吸收，但若是体道大成者进入还是有所裨益。¤According to my inference, the innate aura in the Nine Heaven Thunder Prison is very difficult to absorb, but it is still beneficial for those who have achieved mastery in the Body Dao to enter.
本座“焚天炎帝”，在此片海域发现异火，这异火诞生于天地异象九霄雷狱之中，故而命名九天劫火。¤I am the 'Emperor Yan the Burning Heaven', who discovered the 'Different Fire' in this sea area. This 'Different Fire' was born within the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison, which is a heavenly phenomenon, hence named the Nine Days of Tribulation Fire.
这海上常有一些坊市岛兜售稀奇古怪的玩意儿，好多都是咱们宁州大陆没见过的！¤Often there are some marketplace islands selling strange and rare things on the sea, many of which our Ningzhou mainland has never seen before!
古色古香的红木大床被烟粉色的帷幔遮挡着，随着你的靠近，薄布后深色的轮廓若隐若现，看来似乎有什么东西隐藏在帐子里。¤The antique redwood bed is concealed by smoky pink curtains. As you approach, the dark silhouette behind the thin fabric seems to be hidden or obscured, as if something is concealed within the canopy.
桌子上落满了灰尘，你在铜镜的旁边发现了一根断裂的玉簪，从材料看来原本应当是护身法宝一类的东西。¤The table was covered in dust and you found a broken jade hairpin next to the bronze mirror. From the materials, it appears to have been a protective artifact.
你猝不及防，被吓了一跳，下意识地将手上的灵气送了出去。那尸体吃了一击，咔啦啦地散成几块，露出身后掩藏的什么东西来。¤You were caught off guard and scared, instinctively sending out the spiritual energy in your hand. The corpse was hit and shattered into several pieces, revealing something hidden behind it.
直觉告诉你，床帐后的东西并不简单。为了安全着想，你并没有继续靠近。¤Your intuition tells you that the thing behind the bed curtain is not simple. For safety reasons, you did not approach it further.
即使历经时间洗礼，这把剑依旧纤尘不染，精美的剑鞘似乎彰显着它的不凡。你将剑握入掌中，澎湃的水系灵气顿时似江入海般奔涌而来，剑穗上天青色宝珠也应和般地亮了起来。¤Even after being weathered by time, this sword remains as clean as ever, with a exquisite scabbard that seems to epitomize its exceptional quality. As you grasp the sword in your hand, a surging aura of water element rushes forth like a river into the sea, causing the cyan-colored gem on the sword's tip to glow brightly in resonance.
屋内已经没什么值得调查的东西了，你沿着屋内的台阶向上走去。幸好此处的空间还算稳定，你重新回到了古原城内。¤There was nothing else worth investigating in the house, so you climbed up the stairs inside. Fortunately, the space here was relatively stable, and you returned to Gu Yuan City.
你的动作虽然轻柔，但饱经时间摧折的布料早已脆弱不堪。你的手刚刚放上去，便听见唰啦一声，轻薄的床幔被扯成两段，飘散的灰尘充斥了整张红木床，你只得用灵气将浮尘统统除去。¤Your movements may be gentle, but the fabric, which has been ravaged by time, is already fragile. As soon as your hand touches it, there is a rustling sound and the thin curtains are torn into two pieces, scattering dust all over the redwood bed. You can only use your spiritual energy to remove the floating dust.
这就是星河剑派遗失的仙剑吗...？¤Is this the lost immortal sword of the Celestial River Sword Sect...?
你心性宽厚，波澜不惊，外物的刺激并不能左右你的心情。这具尸体虽然出现突然，但你并没有受到什么影响。¤Your mind is broad, and you remain unperturbed by the disturbances of the outside world. Even though this body suddenly appeared, it has not affected you.
或许是空间错乱的缘故，你和倪旭欣并未传送到一处。而你落脚的这处空间似乎处于地底，室内的摆设不曾受到战争的波及，只是积了厚厚的灰尘。¤Perhaps due to the distortion of space, you and Ni Xuxin did not teleport to the same place. The space where you landed seems to be underground, and the furnishings in the room have not been affected by the war, only accumulating thick dust.
毕竟是上古城池，这间房屋里或许还残存着一些珍贵的功法宝物，你打算简单地搜查一番。¤After all, this is an ancient city, there may still be some precious techniques and artifacts remaining in this house, and you plan to search through it quickly.
难不成这间屋主也是修士吗...？¤Could it be that the owner of this house is also a cultivator...?
失去了床帐的遮掩，塌上的黑影显露在你面前，一具身着星河道袍、早已失去生气的尸体面色惨然，直勾勾地盯着你所在的方向！¤Without the cover of the bed curtains, the collapsed black shadow is revealed in front of you. A corpse dressed in a Celestial River robe, already devoid of vitality, has a miserable expression and stares straight at the direction you are in.
你翻箱倒柜，最终在最底层的木箱里发现了一件勉强能看出原本形状的道袍，显然是不能再穿了。¤You rummage through the boxes and finally found a Taoist robe that is barely recognizable in shape at the bottom of a wooden box, obviously unfit for wearing again.
你低头看去，以古文刻画的“辰星”二字泛着萤萤微光。¤You look down, and see the two characters Chen Xing engraved in ancient script, shimmering with a faint glow.
床幔近在咫尺，你...¤The bed curtain is within arm's reach, you...
此时微弱的灵力波动传来，你看向尸体的后方，一柄闪烁着浅淡灵光的剑落入视野。¤At this moment, a faint spiritual energy fluctuation came over. You looked towards the back of the corpse and saw a sword with a faint spiritual light shining falling into your sight.
见你并未出声他继续说道。¤Seeing that you have not spoken, he continued,
也不知道多少豹麟兽惨遭毒手。¤I don't know how many leopards and beasts have suffered from poisoned hands.
定眼看去台上坐着一个玄古门修士，正在此地维持着阵法的运转。¤Looking closely, there is a cultivator from the Profound Ancient Sect sitting on the platform, maintaining the operation of the array here.
我玄古门这手段也算不上什么吧。¤My Profound Ancient Sect's technique can't be considered anything special.
我本不愿和你为敌，但受人所制，你不能再往前了。¤I didn't want to be your enemy, but circumstances beyond my control have left you with no other way forward.
道友，我辈修仙之人本就是逆天而行，讲究夺万物之灵以强己身。¤Fellow Daoist, we cultivators defy the natural order and seek to obtain the spirits of all things to strengthen our own bodies.
眼前是一团暗金色的血液浮于半空之中，显然刚刚那滴血液就是汇入了此处。¤Before my eyes is a dark golden blood floating in midair, obviously the drop of blood that just entered here.
只是可惜，这些豹麟兽即使以秘法催动境界最高者也不过是金丹，效果差强人意。¤Unfortunately, these leopard and unicorn beasts, even when activated with secret techniques by those at their highest level, are only at the golden core level and their effects are mediocre.
哈哈哈，那是自然。¤Hahaha, that is natural.
这宁州古迹凶险异常，{$TmpTalkString}此番若是前去可要千万小心。¤This Ning Province ancient ruin is incredibly dangerous. If {$TmpTalkString} plans to venture there, they must be extremely careful.
哦？竟然是化尘教的{FirstName}长老？{FirstName}长老道法高深，我也早有耳闻。¤Oh? It's {FirstName}, the elder of the Shifting Sand Sect? I've heard of {FirstName}'s profound Daoist skills before.
哦？竟然是竹山宗的{FirstName}长老？{FirstName}长老道法高深，我也早有耳闻。¤Oh? It's {FirstName}, the elder from Bamboo Mountain Sect? I have heard of {FirstName}'s profound mastery of the Dao.
宁州古迹中奇珍异宝无数，火灵气充沛的灵宝定也不下少数。¤There are countless precious treasures and spirit artifacts with abundant qi enrichment and fire spirits in the ancient ruins of Ning Province.
哦？竟然是{FirstName}道友？{FirstName}道友道法高深，我也早有耳闻。¤Oh? So it's Fellow Daoist {FirstName}? I've heard of the profound cultivation of Fellow Daoist {FirstName} before.
这宁州古迹凶险异常，道友此番若是前去可要千万小心。¤This Ning Province ancient ruin is unusually dangerous. Fellow daoist, if you go, you must be extremely careful.
原来是苍坤长老。许久未见，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤Originally it was Elder Cang Kun. It's been a long time since we last met. If we happen to meet in an ancient site this time, please take care of me more.
原来是离火门的苍坤长老，久仰大名，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤Originally it was Elder Cang Kun from the Fire Gate Sect. I have long heard of your name and if we were to meet in the ancient ruins, please take care of me.
若是那位得此助力，说不定便可...唉，不知于宗门是福还是祸啊......¤If that person gets this help, perhaps... sigh, I don't know if it's a blessing or a curse for the clan...
哦？竟然是星河剑派的{FirstName}长老？{FirstName}长老道法高深，我也早有耳闻。¤Oh? So you are {FirstName}, the elder of Celestial River Sword Sect? I have heard of your profound skills in Dao cultivation.
特别是像赤火元铜精这样的六品火属性珍宝，{$TmpTalkString}若是有幸寻得，不知可否转让与我们离火门。我们愿意出高价收购！¤Especially treasures like the sixth-grade fire attribute item, red fire yuan copper essence, if {$TmpTalkString} is fortunate enough to find it, we wonder if they would be willing to trade it with us, the Fire Gate Sect. We are willing to offer a high price to buy it!
哦？竟然是金虹剑派的{FirstName}长老？{FirstName}长老道法高深，我也早有耳闻。¤Oh? So you're the elder {FirstName} from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect? I've heard of your profound Dao techniques.
此番前往宁州古迹，我们离火门还有一要事，那便是收集一些在宁州较为少见的火属性矿石材料。¤This time when we go to the ancient ruins in Ning Province, there is one important matter for our Fire Gate Sect, which is to collect some rare fire attribute ores and materials in Ning Province.
此地兽王已除，可以回去复命了。¤The beast king in this area has been eliminated, you can go back and report now.
这妖兽好生厉害。¤This spirit beast is really powerful.
他瘫跪在地上，双手浅浅插入泥土之中，你能感受到他仅有的生机在迅速流逝。¤He knelt on the ground, his hands shallowly inserted into the soil. You could feel his only bit of vitality rapidly slipping away.
我不想死，我不会死……¤I don't want to die, I won't die...
…罢了，还是先回枯木林看看他们留下了什么线索吧。¤...just forget it, let's go back to Deadwood Forest first and see if they left any clues.
你没想到，他竟以这种方式“终结”了自己的生命。¤You didn't expect that he would end his own life in this way.
……什么？¤......What?
说吧，你与魔门到底有何瓜葛？¤Speak, what is your relationship with the Demon Sect?
…竟然？¤...Unexpected?
呵呵，原来如此……¤Hehe, I see now...
只见他十指生根，身上冒出嫩芽，赫然变成了一个木人，融入到这茂密的森林中。¤I only saw his ten fingers grow roots, and tender sprouts emerged from his body. He transformed into a wooden man and merged into this lush forest.
嗯？我天机阁情报从未有误，其中可是有了误会？¤Hmm? My information from the heavenly mysteries has never been wrong, is there a misunderstanding?
只见一道人影从内阁飞出，与来者遥遥对峙。¤I only saw a figure flying out of the cabinet and facing the incoming person from a distance.
呵呵，这还是这麒麟本就无甚恶意，要不然化神修士的威压岂是你{xiaozi}能够抵抗的？¤Hehe, this is just the benign might suppression of a deity transformation cultivator. Otherwise, it would be impossible for you{xiaozi} to withstand their pressure.
阁主他自有要事在身，前辈若是有什么需要尽管提，我天机阁自然全力以赴。¤The pavilion master has important matters to attend to, if senior needs anything, do not hesitate to mention it and the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion will naturally spare no effort.
远处一团火焰飞速接近中，恐怖的热浪甚至激活了天机阁的护城大阵。¤In the distance, a ball of flame is rapidly approaching, and the terrifying heat has even activated the Heavenly Machine Pavilion's city defense array.
哼，还好意思说那凤凰遗迹？¤Hmph, still have the nerve to talk about the Phoenix Remains?
钟道友许久不见别来无恙啊？¤Fellow Daoist Zhong, long time no see. Are you well?
退下，不得无礼。¤Step back, do not be impolite.
道友请~¤Fellow daoist, please~
道友言重了，这天下又有谁敢呢？我天机阁卖的就是情报，这凤凰墓的开启信物可没有诓骗道友啊。¤Fellow daoist, your words are too heavy. Who else in this world dares to do it? The Heaven's Secrets Pavilion sells intelligence, and the Phoenix Tomb's opening token is not deceiving fellow daoist.
没什么好羡慕，脚踏实地一步步来，你未必没有那蜕凡化神誉满九州之日。¤There's nothing to envy, step by step with a solid footing, you may not necessarily lack the day of achieving the reputation of godly transformation throughout the land.
凤凰遗迹倒是不假，但是那凤凰血早就消散了。范杰，你莫不是消遣我？¤The Phoenix ruins are not false, but the Phoenix blood has long since dissipated. Fan Jie, are you teasing me?
不过我阁中还有一件宝物或许可以替代这凤凰血，道友移步？¤However, I may have another treasure in my sect that can possibly replace this Phoenix blood. Fellow Daoist, would you like to take a look?
不知是哪位前辈当前，来我天机阁有何贵干？¤I wonder which senior is here at the moment, what brings you to the Heavens Secrets Pavilion?
范杰，你给本座出来！！¤Fan Jie, come out for me!!
怎么火气这么重，可是受了那凤凰血的影响？¤Why is my temper so bad? Could it be because of the influence of the Phoenix blood?
说罢两人并做一道遁光直入内阁。¤After speaking, the two of them made a swift flight towards the inner pavilion.
哼，也不早说。¤Hmph, you should have said it earlier.
呼~好恐怖的威压。¤呼~Such a scary might suppression. 好......
见过前辈¤Have met senior.
这修炼的功法以天阶为首，地阶次之，人阶则最为普通。相对的，越强大的功法也越难领悟，想要突破到高层更是需要上百年的苦修努力。所以从人阶功法开始打好基础，非常重要。¤The cultivation technique starts with the heavenly rank as the highest, followed by the earthly rank, and the mortal rank is the most common. Correspondingly, the more powerful the technique, the harder it is to comprehend, and it takes hundreds of years of hard work and cultivation to break through to higher levels. Therefore, it is very important to establish a foundation with mortal rank techniques.
门派入门功法为《化尘诀》，此乃我教弟子必须修习的基础功法。尘，扬土也。化尘之窍在于沉可中正稳健，扬则灵动敏迅。{shidi}可配合我教入门神通《还尘》与《化沙》，仔细体悟其中法门。¤The entry-level technique of our sect is the Dust Transformation Mantra . This is the fundamental technique that our disciples must practice. Dust refers to raising dust and transforming it. The key to mastering this technique is to remain centered, steadfast, and balanced when sinking, and to be lively, agile, and swift when raising. {shidi} can combine this technique with our sect's entry-level divine skills, Return Dust  and Transform Sand , to carefully comprehend the subtle techniques involved.
书海无涯，学无止境。¤The sea of books is endless, and learning knows no bounds.
{shidi}初来乍到，作为师兄我便私下赠与你一些砂晶，你可小心切莫被长老知晓。¤{shidi}, as a senior brother, I will secretly give you some sand crystals since you are new here. Be careful not to let the elders find out.
这几种功法类型各有优劣，你也可以同时兼修多个不同的功法，但我建议你把修炼速度最快的功法，作为你的{color=#d0380a}主修功法{/color}。¤There are advantages and disadvantages to each type of technique. You can also cultivate multiple different techniques simultaneously, but I recommend that you use the fastest cultivation technique as your main cultivation technique.
{shixiong}，今日来藏经阁有什么事么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Senior brother, do you have any business in the Hidden Manual Pavilion today?
听说天魔眼越往中心深入，出现的魔物就越强。¤I heard that the deeper you go into the center of the Heavenly Devil's Eye, the stronger the spirit beasts that appear will be.
...嗯，就是这本了...{shidi}之前对修炼的功法可有了解？¤Okay, this is the one… {shidi}, did you have any knowledge about cultivation techniques before?
{shidi}，可有什么疑问？¤{shidi}, do you have any questions?
多谢师兄指点。¤Thank you for your guidance, senior brother.
{shidi}若还想兼修本门的其它功法，可以来藏经阁借阅。¤{shidi}, if you want to cultivate other techniques of our Sect, you can come to the Hidden Manual Pavilion to borrow them.
哈哈，宗门内的资源可不能用灵石换取，只有对宗门做出贡献的弟子才有资格在藏经阁与神兵阁兑换功法及法器，而这砂晶正是弟子们贡献度的体现。¤Haha, resources within the clan cannot be exchanged for spirit stones. Only disciples who contribute to the clan are eligible to exchange techniques and magic tools in the hidden manual pavilion and divine warrior pavilion. This sand crystal is a reflection of disciples' contribution points.
一般同阶的功法可以分为几种类型，战斗类的功法可以在与人斗法时提供更强的帮助，修炼类的功法则在修炼速度上有很大的优势，而中庸型的功法则二者兼顾。¤Typically, techniques of the same level can be divided into several types. Combat techniques can provide more assistance during battles against others, while cultivation techniques have great advantages in cultivation speed. Balanced techniques combine both elements.
往年都只有宗门最厉害的几位师兄师姐，才敢到天魔眼的{color=#d0380a}中心区域{/color}猎魔。¤In previous years, only the most powerful senior brothers and senior sisters of the clan dared to hunt demons in the central area of the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
宗门广场上的{color=#d0380a}告示{/color}栏每隔一段时间会发放宗门任务，{shidi}完成任务后便可获得砂晶。¤On the Sect Plaza's {color=#d0380a}bulletin board{/color}, clan missions are issued at regular intervals, and upon completion, one can gain sand crystals.
哟，是新来的小{shidi}。你等着，我去将本门入门功法拿给你。¤Hey, new junior apprentice. Wait here while I go get our sect's beginner technique for you.
若真是如此，那像他这样的人可能不止这一个。接下来要多加小心了。¤If it's true, then there may be more people like him. We have to be more careful from now on.
这也只是我的猜测罢了，毕竟每隔千年，便会有来自各地的修士进入宁州古迹寻找机缘。¤This is just my guess. After all, every thousand years, cultivators from various places will enter the Ningzhou ancient ruins to seek opportunities.
不错，你这么一说，我刚刚的确也有一些烦躁的感觉。只是并不明显，因此没有太过在意。¤Not bad, now that you mention it, I did feel a bit restless just now. But it wasn't too obvious, so I didn't pay too much attention to it.
这里原本就是古战场，乃大凶之地，因此煞气很重。我猜测，若是在这片空间待的时间太久，便会逐渐变得残暴易怒，直到失去意识，成为和此人一样的杀戮机器。¤This was originally an ancient battlefield, the land of great infamy, thus the killing intent is heavy. I speculate that if one stays in this space for too long, they will gradually become cruel and easily angered, until they lose their consciousness and become like a killing machine, just like this person.
短时间内自然没有什么问题，而且心境越是坚定，对这种煞气的抵御能力就会越强。¤There won't be any problem naturally in a short period of time, and the stronger the mental state, the stronger the resilience to this kind of malevolent energy.
这到底是什么人，出手看起来毫无章法可言，用来用去也只会一两个招式，威力倒是不凡。¤What kind of person is this? Their moves seem completely random, and they only seem to know one or two techniques, but their power is impressive.
你注意到没有，从我们进入这片位面以来，便不由自主的会产生一些急躁和焦虑感。¤Did you notice that since we entered this plane, we can't help but feel some impatience and anxiety.
好险...¤Okay, that was close...
你是说，这人可能已经在这片位面被困了上百年，才变成的如今的样子？¤Are you saying that this person may have been trapped in this plane for hundreds of years before becoming what he is now?
此人或许便是千年前进入古迹寻宝的一员，只是不知因何原因没能及时离开，被困在了这里，最后成了这幅人不人鬼不鬼的样子。¤This person may have been one of the members who entered the ancient ruins to seek treasures a thousand years ago, but for some reason unknown, they were unable to leave in time and became trapped here. Eventually, they became a ghostly figure that was neither human nor ghost.
不过若是时间一长，在这里待上十年甚至百年，那就不一样了。¤However, if time passes by and you stay here for ten or even a hundred years, it would be different.
哈哈，送上门的肉参。¤Haha, delivered root ginseng.
我一个外人，还是不要乱转为好。¤I am an outsider, it's best not to interfere.
我先回去汇报此事。¤I will go back and report this matter first.
此事事关重大，你出去之后不要声张。¤This matter is of great importance, do not speak of it after you leave.
你还愣着干嘛？¤Why are you still standing there?
对方深吸一口气，神色凝重的面向你¤The other party took a deep breath and, with a solemn expression, faced you.
这是千年灵剑晶是难得一见的炼器材料，你且收好他日炼制飞剑加入其中必能使之威能大增。¤This is a rare refining material called thousand-year-old spiritual sword crystal. Keep it safe and when you refine your flying sword in the future, adding it in will greatly increase its power.
嗯，我也看到了，这东西不简单啊。¤Mmm, I also saw it, this thing is not easy.
你灵光一现，收益匪浅。¤Your spiritual light has shone, and the gains are not insignificant.
剑阵的那一丝诡异的滞涩感消失不见。¤The eerie and sluggish feeling of the sword array disappeared without a trace.
你出去之后切记不要与他人透露今日所见。¤After you leave, be sure not to reveal what you saw today to anyone.
不错，这是任务奖励，我这就是送你出去。¤Not bad, this is a quest reward. I will send you out right away.
你眼前是一柄青龙灵纹的仙剑。¤Before your eyes is a fairy sword with an azure dragon spirit pattern.
握在手心，诡异的血气消失不见，细细看来这就是一块成色不错的灵剑晶。¤Holding it in the palm of their hand, the eerie blood qi disappeared without a trace. Upon closer inspection, it was a piece of Spiritual Sword Crystal with a good quality.
只见手他掐剑诀，一道剑光注入晶石，那诡异的血气又四溢开来。¤I saw him forming sword seals with his hand, injecting sword energy into the crystal, and the eerie blood qi started to overflow once again.
只见他一起捏法诀，环绕的剑气露出一豁口，你纵身一跃进入核心。¤I saw him pinch a tactic, a gap appeared in the sword qi that surrounded him, you leapt into the core.
楼内会给你丰富奖励的，我们先出去吧。¤The tower will give you rich rewards, let's go out first.
对方听罢，一把夺过晶石，眉头紧锁的细细端详起来。¤After the other party listened, they snatched the crystal, and carefully examined it with a furrowed brow.
在布阵的灵剑晶之中，你发现一块散发着一丝诡异血气的晶石，就是它阻碍了阵法的流转。¤In the spiritual sword crystal array, you discover a crystal emitting a strange blood-like aura, which hinders the circulation of the formation.
我来开启禁制，切记不要乱动。¤I am going to activate the restrictions, be sure not to move recklessly.
你把刚刚所见一一道来。¤Explain what you just saw.
（白痴...）¤(Idiot...)
我还有要事，先走了¤I have some urgent matters to attend to, I'll be leaving now.
千年灵剑晶？{xiaozi}私自盗取布阵材料可不好啊!¤A thousand-year-old sword crystal? {xiaozi}, it's not good to secretly steal materials for the formation!
两仪相生！¤Two principles mutually generate one another!
老头？你刚刚看到了吗？¤Old man? Did you just see that?
你对对剑阵的熟悉，让你有所加成。¤Your familiarity with the sword array gives you a bonus.
你轻松连斩两名祭血使，受到了血剑宫元婴修士的注意。¤You easily killed two blood sacrificial ritual users, attracting the attention of a nascent soul cultivator from Blood Sword Palace.
哼，看剑！¤Hmph, look at my sword!
道友可是正打算出海？如果灵石充裕最好还是选择品阶高些的灵舟，金丹期修为在这海上实在算不得什么倚仗。¤Fellow Daoist, are you planning to set sail? If spirit stones are abundant, it's best to choose a higher class spirit boat. The cultivation at the Golden Core level is not really a reliable strength on the sea.
上古龙宫，对你们如此重要，应该不仅仅只是祖地吧。¤The ancient dragon palace, so important to you, must be more than just ancestral land.
敖灵转向你。¤Aoling turns towards you.
敖灵道友，幸不辱命。¤Ao Ling fellow daoist, luckily did not disappoint.
道友，我就先助我兄长疗伤。¤Fellow Daoist, I will first help my elder brother heal.
请讲。¤Please speak.
不辛苦，这都是灵儿应该的。¤No need to work hard, this is all Ling'er should do.
道友还请留步，敖玄还有一事相求。¤Fellow Daoist, please stay for a moment. Ao Xuan has something to ask of you.
道友，此时还需你多多费心，探明东海龙宫，我族必然不会亏待与你。¤Fellow daoist, at this moment, we still need you to put in more effort, investigate the Dragon Palace in the East Sea. Our clan will definitely not mistreat you.
上古一战我龙族元气大伤，秘宝、秘法大量遗失，所以寻回上古龙宫对我族至关重要。¤In the ancient battle, our dragon clan suffered great injuries to our vitality, and lost a large number of secret treasures and secret arts, so it is crucial for our clan to retrieve the ancient dragon palace.
灵儿，我被困的这段时间，辛苦你了。¤Ling'er, during the time I was trapped, you worked hard.
你正欲转身离开，突闻身后敖玄叫住了你。¤You were just about to turn around and leave when you suddenly heard Ao Xuan call out to you from behind.
灵儿，我回来了。¤Lingren, I'm back.
我自当鼎力相助。¤I will definitely lend a helping hand.
目前，东海探索陨龙之地是因龙脉之力上涌而被推至海上，以此推测当年沉没的龙宫有可能现世。¤Currently, the exploration of the land of the fallen dragons in the East Sea is pushed to the sea surface due to the surging power of dragon veins, leading to the speculation that the Dragon Palace that sank in ancient times may reappear in the present world.
这枚天道果还请道友收好。¤Fellow Daoist, please kindly accept this Heavenly Dao Fruit.
敖灵看着你们脸上难掩激动的神色。¤Aoling looked at your faces with hard to conceal excitement.
兄长，我就知道你没事的。¤Big brother, I knew you were okay.
听你说完，冲虚也是一滞，尔后张了张口却只是吐出一口鲜血，没蹦出半个字。¤After listening to you finish, Chong Xu also became stagnant. Afterwards, he opened his mouth but only coughed up a mouthful of blood, without uttering a single word.
王登伏在地上一脸恶毒的抬头看向你。¤Wang Deng lay on the ground with a vicious expression, looking up at you.
当年你徒儿要当众格杀我这晚辈时，没见你加以阻拦。今日我击败他，却又在此饶舌。¤When you disciple wanted to publicly kill me as a junior, you didn't try to stop him. Today I defeated him, yet you still stand here and talk.
两次可都是你们星宫的人先动手，怪罪到我头上可太冤枉了，只是没想到你们实力如此不济还喜欢出手，怪哉怪哉。¤Twice, it was people from your Star Palace who made the first move. It's too unjust to blame me. I just didn't expect that your strength would be so inadequate yet you still like taking action. It's really strange.
不然下次再让我碰到你，嘿嘿。¤Otherwise, if I run into you again, hehe.
当年害星宫丢尽颜面的是谁，你心里没数么？居然还厚颜无耻的怪罪到我头上！¤Who brought shame to Star Palace back then, don't tell me you don't know? Yet here you are shamelessly shifting the blame onto me!
几息之后，又有一位男修急冲冲的御空飞到冲虚散人身旁，确认他只是受了轻伤，而性命无碍，才放下心来。¤After a few breaths, another male cultivator rushed over to the hermit Chong Xu in mid air, and confirmed that he was only slightly injured and his life was not in danger, before feeling relieved and putting him down.
小友境界虽有不足，实力却很不错，但在我星宫出手，甚至打伤两位长老，想必目的不会是祝贺这么简单吧？¤Although your cultivation level may be lacking, your strength is quite impressive. But for you to strike at my Star Palace and even injure two elders, I'm sure your intentions are not just to congratulate me, right?
至于王登，更是在战斗的余波中早已重伤不醒，像堆垃圾般堆在地上。¤Regarding Wang Deng, he was already seriously injured and unconscious, like a pile of garbage, in the aftermath of combat.
咳咳，敢来我星宫闹事，可...咳...可别想就这么一走了之！¤Cough cough, daring to cause trouble in my Star Palace, you... cough... better not expect to just leave like that!
守门弟子哪见过这场面。要知道星宫虽不如宁州五派来得历史悠久、底蕴丰厚，但也是同白帝楼一般坐拥城池的存在。¤The gate-keeping disciples have never seen such a scene before. Although Star Palace may not have as long a history and rich heritage as the five factions in Ningzhou, it is still a presence that holds a city just like White Emperor Pavilion.
倒是冲虚前辈名为元婴修士却实力不济，在占据先机的情况下仍不是我对手。¤On the other hand, Senior Chong Xu, named Nascent Soul Cultivator, has weak strength and is not my opponent even with the upper hand.
你正准备先寒暄两句，之后再找由头触怒冲虚散人，他却急不可耐的攻将上来。虽有些意外，但也正中你下怀。¤You were just about to exchange a few pleasantries before finding an excuse to provoke Hermit Chong Xu, but he couldn't wait any longer and attacked you. Although it was unexpected, it played right into your hands.
是你！之前在林府大典上害我星宫丢尽颜面，今日竟然还敢上门闹事！真当我星宫无人不成！¤It's you! The one who caused our Star Palace to lose face at the Lin House grand ceremony before! Today, you dare to come and make trouble at our doorstep! Do you really think our Star Palace has no one capable of handling you?
没成想你们这看门弟子竟敢对我出言不逊甚至还直接出手，这都算了，冲虚散人作为元婴长老，也是是非不分，上来就要置我于死地。若不是我神通了得，只怕是会立毙于此。¤Unexpectedly, you, the disciples guarding the gate, dared to be disrespectful to me and even directly attacked me. And to make things worse, the hermit Chong Xu, who is a senior of the Nascent Soul stage, didn't even distinguish right from wrong and tried to kill me right away. If I weren't skilled in divine skills, I would most likely have died here.
冲虚道友何必如此焦躁，我可是好心帮星宫调教弟子，你应该感谢我才是。¤Fellow Daoist Chong Xu, why are you so anxious? I am kindly helping to train the disciples of Star Palace. You should be grateful to me.
小友境界虽有不足，实力却很不错，但在我星宫出手，甚至打伤两位长老，想必目的不会是这么简单吧？¤Although the young friend's realm is not perfect, their strength is quite good. However, when they made a move in my star palace, they even injured two elders. Their intention must not be simple, right?
终须有日龙穿凤，莫欺少年穷啊“王前辈”，可要给我记好了。¤Eventually, there will be a day when a dragon pierces through a phoenix. Don't underestimate a young man's poverty, Senior Wang, remember it well.
呵呵，“王前辈”，你若是不知悔改，我可不介意代你师长好好教教你。¤Hehe, 'Senior Wang', if you don't repent, I don't mind teaching you a lesson on behalf of your mentor.
何人在星宫大放厥词！¤Who is speaking wildly in the Star Palace!
星铃儿正想张嘴驳斥无惑真人，但话到了嘴边又咽了回去，吐了吐舌头便躲到宫主身后。正巧这二人身形相似，倒也遮了个严严实实。¤Star Bell was about to refute Paragon Confusionless, but the words died on her lips. She stuck out her tongue and hid behind the palace master. The two of them looked similar, which provided a perfect cover.
哼，那事暂且不提。你今日上门打伤星宫两位长老可是有假？¤Hmph. Let's not talk about that matter for now. Did you really injure two elders from the Star Palace when you visited today?
你居然真是元婴境，咳咳，但这里可是星宫的地盘，别太得意了。¤You're actually in the Nascent Soul stage, cough cough, but this is the territory of the Star Palace. Don't get too arrogant.
冲虚散人面如死灰，无惑真人也是面露讶色，强大女修却是嘴角略微上扬，一副很感兴趣的样子，而星铃儿只是好笑的看着你，也不知她在想什么。（只有剩下的那个金丹期女修，一副不是很感兴趣的样子，不知在思考什么）¤Hermit Chong Xu's face was ashen, Confusionless Paragon also looked surprised, the powerful female cultivator had a slight smirk on her lips, as if she were very interested. Star Bell just laughed and looked at you, it's unclear what she is thinking. (The only remaining female cultivator at the Golden Core stage seemed uninterested and lost in thought.)
此等势力被人在门口击败两位长老，其中一位还是元婴长老，这可还是头一遭。¤This power was defeated by someone at the door, two Elders were among them, one of whom was a Nascent Soul Elder, which is unprecedented.
实在是抱歉，但晚辈也确是事出有因才拜访星宫。¤I'm truly sorry, but there is a reason why this junior came to visit Star Palace.
正当你嘲笑冲虚散人时，一位看不出深浅的女修带着另一名大概金丹初期的女修来到大殿，却只是走到一旁，也不言语，只是遣散了两位守门弟子，而后便立于一旁。¤Just as you were mocking the hermit Chong Xu, an unremarkable female cultivator arrived with another female cultivator who appeared to be in the early golden core stage. They walked to the side of the hall without saying anything, dispersing the two gatekeepers before standing silently.
正当你嘲笑冲虚散人时，一位看不出深浅的女修带着星铃儿来到大殿，也不言语，只是遣散了两位守门弟子，而后便立于一旁。倒是星铃儿一副很感兴趣的样子。¤Just when you were mocking the Hermit Chong Xu, an unknown female cultivator carrying Star Bell arrived at the main hall without saying a word, dismissed the two gatekeeper disciples, and stood to the side. Star Bell seemed very interested in everything.
这不是冲虚道友么？我...¤Isn't this Fellow Daoist Chong Xu? I...
眼见你一边调侃着冲虚散人，一边将目光投过来，两位被吓傻的守门弟子也是木讷的点点头，下意识地表示赞同。¤I saw you teasing Hermit Chong Xu while casting a glance over, and the two dumbfounded gatekeepers also nodded in agreement instinctively.
而且，实力不济就不要逞强嘛，当着一众弟子出手却被打得灰头土脸的可不风光。¤Moreover, if you're not strong enough, don't try to act tough. It's not impressive to be battered and humiliated in front of a crowd of disciples.
好了，无惑师徒确实做的不对，小友你也不用再奚落他二人了。还是让冲虚自己来说说突破的事吧。可有此事？¤Okay, it's true that Wuhuo and his disciple did something wrong. Young friend, you don't need to mock them anymore. Let's have Chongxu explain about the breakthrough himself. Is there such a thing?
事出反常必有妖，还是小心为妙。¤Unusual things must have demons behind them. It's better to be careful.
你不甘心地四处搜寻，可惜没过多久，洞窟内便恢复了平静。¤You searched around unwillingly, unfortunately, not long after, the cave recovered its calmness.
隐约中，你似乎看到一条通体鲜红的巨大蛇身盘踞于前方。还未来得及等你细细观察，只听身后传来细微的响声。¤Vaguely, you seem to see a huge, all-red snake body coiled in front of you. Before you have a chance to observe it carefully, you hear a faint sound coming from behind.
你对火之道的感悟颇深，已经能够轻松感知到周天火灵气的活跃情况。¤You have a deep understanding of the fire dao and are already able to easily perceive the activity of the fire spirit in your dantian.
不入虎穴，焉得虎子。若是就这么逃了，岂非白白放过一次机缘。¤Do not enter the tiger's den, how can you catch the tiger's cub? If you run away like this, wouldn't you miss this opportunity for nothing.
这里本就是一处少见的火属性洞窟，周天火灵气异常活跃。但如此情况也绝非寻常，若不是某种火属性异宝出世，便是有修为极高的火属性大妖在此处筑巢。你决定...？¤This is an unusual cave with a rare fire attribute, and the fire spirit energy in the surrounding area is extremely high. However, this situation is not normal. If it is not due to the emergence of some kind of fire attribute treasure or the nest of a high-level fire attribute monster, then what is it? What will you decide to do?
随着你不断深入洞窟，你能感受到周围的气温开始迅速地攀升。¤As you delve deeper into the cave, you can feel the surrounding temperature rapidly rising.
你鼓起勇气朝着洞窟深处探去。很快，由于陡升的高温，洞窟内的一切水分都在快速蒸发，把所有东西都笼罩在一片迷雾之中。¤You gather your courage and venture towards the depths of the cave. Soon, due to the sudden rise in temperature, all the moisture inside the cave rapidly evaporates, shrouding everything in a mist.
你想尝试感知周天火灵气的活跃情况，找到异象所处的具体位置。可惜你对火之道的感悟也只是初窥门径，一番努力后也没能找到确切的位置。¤You wanted to try sensing the activity of the fire spirit in the heavens and earth and locate the specific location of the anomaly. Unfortunately, your understanding of the fire dao is only at its first glimpse of enlightenment, despite your efforts, you were unable to find the exact location.
嘶~¤*sigh*
一个满是红色鳞片的蛇头不知何时出现在了你的背后，巨大的蛇眼直瞪着你，似乎还带着一丝戏谑的神情。¤A snake head covered in red scales appeared behind you at some point, its huge snake eyes staring straight at you, seemingly with a hint of playful expression.
你想尝试感知周天火灵气的活跃情况，找到异象所处的具体位置。可惜你对火之道的感悟一窍不通，一番努力后也没能找到确切的位置。¤You want to try to sense the activity of the fire spirit energy in your surroundings, and locate the specific location of any abnormalities. Unfortunately, you have no knowledge of the fire dao, and after some effort, you were unable to find the exact location.
不仅仅是这洞窟之内，你能感知到周天的火灵气都在快速地朝着一个方向涌去。此等异象与其说是异宝出世，倒是更像是有什么修为远高于你的人或妖在此地突破！¤Not only inside this cave, you can sense the fire spirit energy of the surrounding world rushing towards a certain direction rapidly. This phenomenon is more like someone or a demonic being with a cultivation far beyond yours breaking through in this place rather than a rare treasure emerging.
刚刚比试的结果都已经出来了，马上开始本届宗门大比的决赛！¤The results of the just concluded competition have already been announced, and the finals of this year's clan competition will immediately commence!
可惜，可惜...¤Unfortunately, unfortunately...
{FirstName}{shixiong}不愧是上一届门派大比的冠军，实力果然不俗。¤{FirstName}{shixiong} is indeed worthy of being the champion of the previous sect competition, and his strength is truly remarkable.
{FirstName}{shixiong}这段时间真是进步神速啊，我看他今年很希望夺魁。¤{FirstName}{shixiong} has made remarkable progress during this time period, I believe he has a high chance of winning this year.
刚刚比试的结果都已经出来了，那么第四轮比试，就由{FirstName}{LastName}对阵云秋兰。¤The results of the previous round have been announced, so for the fourth round, {FirstName} {LastName} will face off against Yun Qiulan.
{FirstName}{shidi}，请指教。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, please teach me.
哎，{FirstName}{shixiong}这样的修为还来参加宗门大比，是有些太欺负人了...¤Ah, it's a bit unfair for someone with {FirstName}{shixiong}'s cultivation level to participate in the clan competitions...
哪来的魔修？！¤Where did the demonic cultivator come from?!
魔修拿命来！¤Devil Cultivator, bring your life!
想要去云汐城必定经过此地，我就在这里蹲守吧。¤I must pass through this place if I want to go to Yun Shi City, so I'll wait here in ambush.
你跳上路旁的一棵树，一边闭目调息一边等候金大勇的到来。未过多久便传来一阵脚步声，你定睛一看，正是他！¤You jump onto a tree by the road, close your eyes and adjust your breath while waiting for Jin Dayong's arrival. Not long after, you hear some footsteps and look over to see that it's him!
随之而来的，便是龙湛如雷似电般迅猛的攻击。¤The attack that followed was as fast as lightning and as powerful as thunder from a dragon.
父亲！执迷不悟的人是你！¤Father! It's you who's obstinately refusing to change!
也许龙族本意并非斗争！¤Maybe the dragon clan's original intention is not for fighting!
父亲，你这是应允了？！¤Father, did you agree to this?!
你们匆忙赶到码头，百里邑与一众百里族人早已在码头驻足。远处龙族或腾空或乘浪，气势汹汹地朝着广陵城的方向行进。¤You hurriedly arrived at the pier, where Baili Yi and the other Baili clan members had already gathered. In the distance, members of the Dragon Clan were either flying or riding waves, aggressively heading towards Guangling City.
好你个百里小儿，竟敢作弄于我！¤Okay, you Baili brat, dare to play tricks on me!
我这便将其送还给龙族长老！{xiongdi}不妨和我一起？¤I will now return it to the Dragon Clan elders! {xiongdi} Would you like to accompany me?
但先前的协议已定好，如今是他们毁约在前。¤But the previous agreement has been settled, now it is their breach of contract beforehand.
百里邑攥紧了拳头，沉默半晌后长长地叹了口气，紧握的手也缓缓地松开。¤Baili Yi clenched his fist tightly and after half a moment of silence, he let out a long sigh and slowly loosened his gripped hand.
龙吟声隐隐传来，成群结队的龙族以乘风破浪之势离码头愈来愈近。¤The faint sound of dragon roar was heard, as masses of Dragon Clan approached the pier in a riding-the-wind-and-breaking-the-waves manner.
父亲！只要我们将龙珠还给龙族...¤Father! As long as we return the Dragon Ball to the Dragon Clan...
百里族人听令，准备迎敌！¤Baili clan, listen up and prepare to face the enemy!
够了！¤Enough!
龙珠可还在你身上？¤Do you still have the dragon ball on you?
整座城池笼罩在不安与恐惧的阴影下，所有人脸上都是相同的慌张与惧怕。¤The entire city is shrouded in a shadow of unease and fear, and everyone's face bears the same look of panic and dread.
你看看这些族人，看看城中的百姓，难道我们要连累广陵城的居民一直过这样提心吊胆的日子吗！¤Look at these clan members, and look at the people in the city. Are we going to keep putting the residents of Guangling City in this constant state of fear and uncertainty?
你依百里奇所言看向那些人们，未接触过海兽的弟子们流露出些许惊惧的神色，而百姓早已乱作一团。¤According to Baili Qi's words, you looked at those people. The disciples who had not yet come into contact with sea beasts showed some fearful expressions, while the commoners had already become chaotic.
逆子！不要执迷不悟！¤Rebellious child! Don't persist in your ignorance!
罢了，这件事也是该做个了结了。¤Alright, this matter should also come to an end.
显然百里邑也将这一幕收在眼底，他的表情莫测，叫人看不出情绪。¤Clearly Baili Yi also witnessed this scene, his expression inscrutable, making it hard to discern his emotions.
况且无尽之海如此广阔，我百里家的儿郎莫非要在这蓬莎岛做一辈子缩头乌龟？¤Moreover, the Endless Sea is so vast, are my Baili Family's descendants going to live as cowards on Pongsha Island forever?
原本热闹的坊市如今空无一人，地上散落着打翻的商品。街上的百姓行色匆匆，不复往日的祥和安乐。¤The once bustling marketplace is now empty, with overturned goods scattered on the ground. The people on the street hurry along, no longer experiencing the peace and happiness of the past.
你与百里奇一同御剑而起，向着龙族的方向飞去。你二人刚接近龙群，一道炸雷般的呼声蓦地响起。¤You and Baili Qi soared together on your swords, flying towards the direction of the Dragon Clan. Just as you both approached the dragon group, a thunderous roar suddenly erupted.
略知一二。¤I only know a bit.
道友有所不知，这碎星商会虽说是由我们三家共同管理，但却是轮流做庄，每个长老都有权力对会长发起生死挑战，而会长必须接受挑战。¤Fellow daoists may not know, although the Shattered Star Merchant Guild is jointly managed by our three families, it operates on a rotating basis. Each elder has the power to challenge the guild leader to a life-or-death duel, and the leader must accept the challenge.
那么，你约我来此，就是为了图南海之事吧？¤So, you invited me here for the matter concerning South Tu Sea, right?
哈哈哈，{FirstName}供奉果然爽快。这几日我会让人待在碎星商会，等你准备好了来找我便是。¤Hahaha, {FirstName} the guest elder is indeed straightforward. I will have someone stay at the Shattered Star Merchant Guild these few days, so when you are ready, come find me.
虽说如今此人只有元婴初期修为，但据我所知，一些早已晋入元婴后期的高手也不是他的对手。¤Although this person only has early nascent soul cultivation currently, from what I know, some experts who have already entered late nascent soul cultivation are not his opponents.
第一，我们吴家这一代长老正是青黄不接之时，无人能接下此挑战，因此只能从外族中挑选合适的供奉人选。¤Firstly, in our Wu family's generation of elders, it is currently a difficult time as there is no one who can take up this challenge. Therefore, we can only select suitable guest elders from outside of our clan.
唐家族人擅于控器，此人更是少有的天才，据说能在与人对敌时精准地控制数千枚飞针法宝。¤The Tang family is skilled in weapon control, and this person is a rare genius who can reportedly accurately control thousands of flying needle artifacts in battle.
而若是未做任何准备便强行突破，几乎不可能直接成功。¤If one forcefully tries to breakthrough without any preparation, it would be almost impossible to directly succeed.
这化神期强者虽说仍未飞升，但实际已成半仙之体。若非自身压制修为，则举手投足间便可引动天劫。¤This deity transformation powerhouse, although not yet ascended, has actually become a halfxian body. If not suppressing their own cultivation, they can easily provoke heavenly tribulation with a flick of their hand.
原来如此...那么，我还有最后一个问题。¤So that's how it is... Then, I have one last question.
若道友能助我们吴家在这次比试中得胜，那这颗混元仙体丹便归道友了。¤If Fellow Daoist can help our Wu family win in this competition, then this Chaos Immortal Form Pill will belong to Fellow Daoist.
何况，这混元仙体丹虽好，也得有命拿才行。道友若无获胜之把握，恐怕也不会轻易答应吧？¤Moreover, even if this Chaos Immortal Form Pill is good, it needs to be obtained with fate. Fellow daoist, if you have no confidence in winning, you probably won't easily agree, right?
好，那想必道友很清楚，若是未做任何准备便强行突破，几乎不可能直接成功。¤Okay, then I assume fellow daoist is well aware that it's almost impossible to succeed directly if you forcefully breakthrough without any preparation.
这生死比试，莫非只有一方死在比试中，才算决出胜负？¤Does this life and death competition only end with one party dying in the competition for the victory to be decided?
所以{FirstName}道友和你的那位朋友在南崖城四处调查图南海的情报，我们自然是一清二楚。¤Therefore, fellow daoist {FirstName} and your friend are investigating information about the South Tu Sea in South Cliff City, and we naturally have a clear understanding of it.
一旦比试开始，生死不论。如今商会虽说暂由我们吴家管理，但此番比试若是不敌，自然就保不住这会长的位置了。¤Once the competition begins, life and death will be disregarded. Although our Wu family is temporarily in charge of the business association, if we lose this competition, we will naturally not be able to keep our position as the chairman.
如今的碎星商会，其实是由碎星岛的唐家，白家以及我们吴家一起掌管的。¤The current Shattered Star Merchant Guild is actually jointly managed by the Tang, Bai, and our Wu families of Shattered Star Island.
生死比试？¤Life and death competition?
这次对我们发起挑战的是唐家，唐家近百年来有一长老成长的很快，如今在海上已是赫赫有名的元婴期高手。¤The one who is challenging us this time is the Tang family. Over the past hundred years, they have had an elder who has grown very quickly, and now is a well-known expert in the nascent soul stage on the sea.
很抱歉这次不能亲自来请你，但正值特殊时期，老夫也不得不防备着些，还请道友见谅。¤I apologize for not being able to personally invite you this time, but during this special period, I also have to be cautious. I hope fellow daoist can understand.
能够辅助化神的丹药极其珍贵，即便只能略微提升成功率，在各地拍卖会上也足以卖出百万以上灵石的高价。¤The pills that can assist in deity transformation are extremely valuable. Even if they can only slightly increase the success rate, they are enough to fetch high prices of millions of spirit stones at auctions held throughout the realm.
若是我们吴家因为觊觎这些而失去了和你这样的强者交好的机会，那才是得不偿失之事。¤If our Wu family loses the opportunity to befriend a strong person like you because of our greed for these things, that would be a loss outweighing gain.
而我们元婴期修士想要突破化神，便要经过从凡体蜕变为仙胎的过程。只有当仙性超过凡性时，方可完成蜕变，突破化神。¤And for us cultivators in the nascent soul stage, in order to breakthrough deity transformation, we must go through the process of transforming from a mortal body into an immortal one. Only when our immortality surpasses our mortality can the transformation be completed and we can breakthrough to deity transformation.
第二，我们选择不多，几位交好的老前辈或在闭关，或在海外，暂时指望不上。你能从图南海漩涡中安全出来，这样的实力便值得我们赌上一次。¤Secondly, our options are limited, with only a few trusted seniors either cultivating or overseas, who we can't rely on at the moment. Your ability to safely escape the whirlpool in the South Tu Sea is worth us taking a chance on.
好，我答应了。¤Good, I promise.
{FirstName}道友莫急，关于此事我必会解释清楚。不知道友之前对碎星商会可有了解？¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, please do not worry. I will explain this matter clearly. Do you know anything about the Shattered Star Merchant Guild?
抱歉，我不能接受，吴长老还是另请高明吧。¤Sorry, I cannot accept it. Mr. Wu, please find another way.
不仅如此，最近图南海的异象也已经引起了各方的注意，若有心调查，不难发现道友与此事的关系。¤Moreover, recently the anomaly in the South Tu Sea has also caught everyone's attention. If one investigates with a keen eye, it is not difficult to discover the relationship between Fellow Daoist and this matter.
直说了吧，这次邀道友来此，其实是希望道友能够作为我们吴家的供奉，替我们参加这一次商会内部生死比试。¤Just come out and say it, the reason we invited fellow daoists here is actually because we hope fellow daoists can serve as guest elders for our Wu family and participate in the life and death competition within the trade union on our behalf.
原来你们是碎星商会的人..¤So, you guys are from the Shattered Star Merchant Guild.
可惜...可惜...既然道友没有信心出战，那我也不勉强道友了。¤Unfortunately... unfortunately... since fellow daoist doesn't have confidence in participating in the battle, I won't force fellow daoist.
吴长老，你派人在客栈外监视于我，又把我在图南海的事调查的一清二楚，到底是何意图？我们还是先把这事说说清楚吧。¤Elder Wu, why did you send people to monitor me outside the inn and investigate my business in South Tu Sea? Let's talk about it and clarify things.
只要道友答应出战，我立刻便着手安排。¤As long as fellow daoist agrees to participate in the battle, I will immediately start making arrangements.
哈哈哈，{FirstName}道友，请坐,请坐！这是我们吴家自酿的仙酒，道友也来品尝一下吧。¤Hahaha, Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, please be seated, please be seated! This is our homemade immortal wine of Wu family, why don't Fellow Daoist try it?
而这无论生死的规则不过是让比试的双方能够无所顾忌的全力出手罢了，若自觉不敌，提前认输便是。¤And the rules of life and death are nothing more than allowing the two sides of the competition to fully exert themselves without scruples. If one feels inferior, they can surrender in advance.
说说吧，你能拿出什么让我感兴趣的东西？¤Speak up, what can you bring out that would interest me?
我此时手头还有诸多事宜，恐怕不会在南崖城待太久。这比试何时开始？¤At this moment, I still have many matters to attend to. I'm afraid I won't stay in South Cliff City for too long. When does the competition start?
{FirstName}道友误会了，不管道友在图南海得到了什么，那也是凭的自己的实力和机缘。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName} has misunderstood. Regardless of what fellow daoist may have obtained in the South Tu Sea, it was based on their own strength and opportunities.
我们吴家世代相传一秘方，唤作混元仙体丹。服用此丹后，能稍微提升突破至化神的成功率。¤Our Wu family has passed down a secret recipe for generations, called Chaos Immortal Form Pill. After taking this pill, it can slightly increase the success rate of breaking through and transforming into a deity.
吴长老，您久等了,这位便是{FirstName}前辈。¤Elder Wu, you've been waiting for a long time. This is Senior {FirstName}.
哈哈哈，道友无需担心。这比试虽说是由挑战者发起，我们作为应战的一方，却有在一定范围内选择时间与地点的权力。¤Hahaha, fellow daoist, you need not worry. Although the challenge was initiated by the challenger, we, as the challenged party, have the right to choose the time and location within a certain range.
我的对手是什么实力？¤What is the strength of my opponent?
（难怪他们如此小心，原来是在防备另外两个家族...）¤(No wonder they are so cautious, it turns out they are guarding against two other families...)
道友是想问，我们为何要选你么？¤Fellow daoist, I would like to ask why we should choose you?
这比试既然号称不论生死，想必极其危险。我可以替你们参加比试，但有些问题还得先问清楚。¤This competition is said to be a matter of life and death, so it must be extremely dangerous. I can participate in the competition for you, but there are some questions that need to be clarified first.
自然不是，不过元婴间的比试不用全力便罢了，一旦全力以赴，很难强行收手。¤Of course not, but in a nascent soul's competition, there's no need to use full strength. However, once one goes all out, it's difficult to stop forcibly.
万鳞甲？¤Ten thousand scales armor?
上古时期，每一任龙皇登基，金丹期以上的鳞甲水族都会献上身上最硬的鳞片，炼制而成的龙族至宝，据说不论是炼制手法还是材料已经全部失传，没想到老夫我还能得见。¤During ancient times, every time a new Dragon Emperor was enthroned, the scales of the water-dwelling dragon clan members who had reached the Golden Core stage or above would be offered to create the ultimate treasure of the dragon clan, which was said to have been created using the hardest scales on their bodies. It is said that the techniques and materials used to create this treasure have long been lost, but unexpectedly, I have been able to witness it.
这傀儡存留至今竟还有元婴期实力，上古龙族还真是厉害。¤The puppet still remaining until now surprisingly has the strength of the nascent soul stage, the ancient dragon clan really is formidable.
比起现在龙族龟缩一隅，很难想象上古龙族的辉煌啊。¤Compared to the current Dragon Clan's shrinkage in a corner, it is hard to imagine the glory of the ancient Dragon Clan.
空中悬浮着一件内甲¤There is an inner armor suspended in mid-air.
这难道是？万鳞甲？？！！！¤Is this... Ten Thousand Scales Armor?!!
呼...呼...¤Huh...huh...
真想有一天可以去星宫看看。¤I really want to go to Star Palace one day.
所谓化神，实际是蜕凡为仙的过程。化神之后，仙体初成，力量也会大增，与一般的元婴期修士相比已如云泥之别。¤The so-called deity transformation refers to the process of transforming from mortal to immortal. After the transformation, the immortal body is formed and the power will greatly increase, making it vastly different from regular nascent soul stage cultivators.
宁州各派交好，一方面是为了合作抵御魔修的侵扰，另一方面也是忌惮彼此的实力。真正涉及到一些重要的资源争夺时，依旧还是实力说话。¤The various sects of Ningzhou have formed alliances, on one hand to cooperate in repelling the invasion of demonic cultivators, and on the other hand out of fear of each other's strength. When it comes to important resource disputes, strength is still the decisive factor.
元婴期相较于金丹期，有一极大的不同。你凝练出的元婴，作为你的第二元神，也和本体一样可以修炼功法。¤Nascent soul stage compared to golden core stage, has a significant difference. The nascent soul that you condense, as your second divine soul, can also cultivate techniques just like the body.
因此，大部分化神期强者都会选择隐世闭关，凝练力量，为渡劫做好准备。不到万不得已，轻易不会出面，这也算是一种约定俗成的规矩。¤Therefore, most experts at the Deity Transformation stage would choose to hide and cultivate, refining their power and preparing for tribulation. Unless absolutely necessary, they would not easily appear, which is considered as an unwritten rule.
{shidi}难道未曾想过，为何修真界会有宗门，家族之分？¤Did {shidi} never think why there are clans and family divisions in the cultivation world?
如果说金丹期的长老们是门派的中流砥柱，那元婴期则是一个门派真正的底蕴与底牌所在。¤If the elders of the golden core stage are the backbone of the sect, then the nascent soul stage is where the true foundation and strength of a sect lie.
我们宁州的五大门派之所以能够有如今的地位，也是因为门派内至少能一个元婴期修士坐阵。如今我派可谓实力大增，日后在宁州的话语权也不可同日而语。¤The reason why the five major sects in our Ningzhou are able to have their present status is because there is at least one nascent soul cultivator sitting in the sect. Nowadays, our sect can be said to have greatly increased in power, and our voice in Ningzhou is also not to be underestimated.
按门内秘籍记载，当修为达到元婴巅峰后，体内灵气与元婴凝练皆已达到顶峰，此时便可借此机会重塑凡体，淬炼神魂。¤According to the secret manual in the sect, when one's cultivation reaches the pinnacle of the Nascent Soul stage, both the spiritual energy in the body and the Nascent Soul have reached their peak. At this time, one can use this opportunity to reshape their mortal body and refine their soul.
如果能渡过天劫，自然得以飞升上界。而一旦失败，则千余年修为毁于一旦。¤If one can pass through the heavenly tribulation, they can naturally ascend to the upper realm. However, if they fail, their cultivation of over a thousand years will be destroyed in an instant.
如果我没记错的话，{FirstName}{shidi}如今应该还不到三百岁吧。¤If I remember correctly, {FirstName} {shidi} should be less than three hundred years old now.
自然不是，这还要从化神期修士的本质说起...¤Nature is not, this has to do with the essence of cultivators in the void transformation stage...
如果我没记错的话，{FirstName}{shidi}如今应该还不到五百岁吧。¤If I am not mistaken, {FirstName} {shidi} should still be under 500 years old.
那心魔的反噬确实恐怖，我现在想来也有些后怕...¤The backlash of the demon heart is truly terrifying. I now feel some fear when thinking back on it...
如果我没记错的话，{FirstName}{shidi}应该已有{$sui}余岁了吧。¤If I remember correctly, {FirstName} {shidi} should already be over {$sui} years old.
难道...各派都没有化神期实力的强者么？¤Doesn't each sect have any strong experts at the void transformation stage?
寻常的金丹期修士只有五百年寿元，想必师弟此番能够突破，也是遇到了一些属于自己的机缘。¤Ordinary cultivators at the Golden Core stage only have a lifespan of five hundred years. I'm sure Junior's breakthrough this time was thanks to encountering some opportunities of his own.
想起当年本座结婴时的情景，至今还历历在目。那心魔会幻化成你内心最害怕和最恐惧的东西，若是没有一颗坚定的道心，便会落得一个魂飞魄散的下场。¤When I remember the scene of my nascent stage years ago, it is still vivid in my mind. That demon heart will transform into the thing you fear and dread the most in your heart. Without a resolute heart, one will end up with a scattered soul.
然而天地之间自有法则束缚，力量过强便会被天地排斥。化神期强者若是全力出手便会破碎虚空，引来天劫。¤However, there are laws that bind the universe, and when one's power becomes too strong, they will be rejected by the universe. If a strong cultivator at the Deity Transformation stage exerts their full power, they will shatter the void and incur Heavenly Tribulation.
据我所知，能在如此年纪便突破元婴期的修士并非没有过，但也不过寥寥数十人而已。{shidi}未来成就不可限量啊。¤As far as I know, there have been a few cultivators who were able to breakthrough to Nascent Soul at such a young age, but they are few and far between. {shidi}'s future achievements are limitless.
若非我事先服用了一枚{$Var}，想必我也难以熬过那种心神淬炼的折磨。¤If I hadn't taken a {$Var} beforehand, I would surely have a hard time enduring the mentally exhausting torment.
当凡性褪去，仙格显现，便是一鼓作气突破化神之时。此时若能成功突破，便可凝聚仙人之体，否则将修为大退，功亏一篑。¤When mortality fades away and deity transformation emerges, it is time to make a breakthrough. If successful in breaking through, one can condense the body of an immortal. Otherwise, their cultivation will greatly regress and their efforts will be in vain.
元婴修炼功法后，能够获得许多特殊的神通。而根据元婴所修炼功法的{color=#d0380a}属性{/color}不同，能够获得的神通也各不相同。¤After cultivating nascent soul techniques, one can gain many special divine skills. Depending on the attributes of the techniques cultivated by the nascent soul, the divine skills that can be gained also differ.
我困在元婴期多年，一直无法更进一步，但在修炼上还是有一些独到的体会。¤I have been stuck in the Nascent Soul stage for many years and have been unable to progress further, but I still have some unique insights in cultivation.
而宁州大大小小可供修炼的灵脉，无一不是被各大门派与家族所占据着。宗门为弟子提供安全的修炼场地，但同样也需要依托整个宗门的实力，才有资格占据这样的宝地。¤And in Ningzhou, all the spiritual veins available for cultivation, whether big or small, are occupied by various sects and clans. The sect provides safe cultivation sites for its disciples, but also needs to rely on the overall strength of the sect to qualify for occupying such a treasure land.
{FirstName}{shidi}，要知道金丹期修士能够结成元婴者，万中无一，而且个个都是天纵奇才。¤{FirstName}{shidi}, you should know that only one in a million cultivators in the Golden Core stage can form a Nascent Soul, and each one of them is a gifted genius.
我只当宁州各派一向交好，莫非...¤I only thought that the various factions in Ningzhou have always been on good terms, could it be...
我当年也是与你差不多年纪的时候才凝结成婴，以{shidi}你的资质，未来成就定当不弱于我。¤When I was about your age, I too condensed into an infant. With your aptitude {shidi}, your future achievements will definitely not be weaker than mine.
是来协助巡山的外门{shidi}吗？¤Are you the outer disciple coming to assist with mountain patrol, {shidi}?
宗门重地，办完事{shidi}还是速速离去。¤Leave quickly after finishing your business at the important place of the clan {shidi}.
此地乃宗门重地，若是无事{shidi}还是不要多做逗留。¤This place is a crucial location for the clan. If there's no business, it's better not to linger too long {shidi}.
可是来协助巡山内门{shidi}？目前人手空缺，{shidi}的到来也是解了燃眉之急。¤But to assist the patrol of the inner door, {shidi}? Currently understaffed, your arrival is also a pressing matter solved.
既然是内门来的{shidi}，势必实力不差，核心区域的值守点就交由{shidi}了。¤Since you are a junior fellow from the inner sect, your strength must not be weak. I will assign the task of guarding the core area to you, {shidi}.
{shidi}以你的实力，我就把你安排在外围区域的值守点。\n¤{shidi}, based on your current strength, I have assigned you to guard duty in the outer perimeter area.
我这就前去。¤I'll leave now.
你似乎偶有所悟，心境得到了提升。¤You seem to have occasionally realized something, and your mental state has been improved.
所谓的坊市，就是以物易物，各取所需。¤The so-called marketplace is where goods are exchanged for other goods and each takes what they need.
神仙打架总在天上，可是这悲欢离合，多在人世间啊...¤Gods and goddesses always fight in the heavens, but the joys and sorrows, often happen in the mortal world...
可惜冥冥之中自有定数，即使是金丹期修士也逃不过天道的无常，这一次意外之行令你感悟颇多。¤Unfortunately, there is a predetermined fate in the darkness, even cultivators in the golden core stage cannot escape the unpredictability of the heavens. This unexpected journey has enlightened you greatly.
一阵天旋地转过后，你回到了正阳山外，想来这传送机关是当时他为自己留下的后路。¤After a whirlwind, you returned outside of Mount Rising Sun. It is likely that this teleportation mechanism was a way for him to flee at that time.
听说广陵城的万宝行，什么天才地宝都能买到，真想有机会去见识一下。¤I heard that Guangling City's Wanbao Market is where you can buy any treasure or genius, I really want to have the opportunity to go and see it for myself.
洞府也不是谁人都能买的。道友若是想要购买洞府还是需要宁州声望到达略有薄名。¤Not everyone can buy a cave. Fellow daoist, if you want to buy a cave, you still need to have a slightly famous reputation in Ningzhou.
我宁州有一座巨大的灵脉为玄道宗所控制，其上建立城池，道友可知是哪里？¤In my Ningzhou, there is a huge spiritual vein controlled by the Xuan Dao Sect, on which a city has been built. Fellow Daoist, do you know where it is?
那就是逸风城，玄道宗更是指派了所谓的宁王前去管理，道友若是想要购买洞府不妨去逸风府看看。¤That is Yifeng City, and the Xuan Dao Sect has appointed the so-called Ning King to manage it. If fellow daoists wish to purchase caves, they may wish to visit Yifeng Manor.
请问...\n¤Excuse me,...
洞府之中，道友可自行布置灵田、炼丹房、炼器室，修炼速度更不是我们这种客栈可以比的。¤Inside the cave, fellow daoists can arrange their own spirit fields, alchemy rooms, and refining rooms. The speed of cultivation cannot be compared to the inn we are in.
她陷入了沉思。你也没有再说什么，只是等她独自思考。¤She fell into contemplation. You didn't say anything else, just waiting for her to think alone.
既然你有无限的生命，那么就有无限的可能。¤Since you have infinite life, then you have infinite possibilities.
她告诉我，镇里的人欺负我只是因为害怕我，怕我给镇上带来什么不好的东西，想把我赶出去。¤She told me that the people in the town bully me only because they are afraid of me, afraid that I will bring something bad to the town, and they want to drive me away.
它可以逍遥自在，也可以一方为王；可以与人类交好，也可以与妖兽为伴。¤It can be free and unconstrained, or rule over a territory; it can befriend humans or accompany spirit beasts.
今后…我还没有考虑过…¤In the future... I haven't thought about it yet...
她？¤She?
还要不要坚持原来的目标呢？¤Do you still want to stick to your original goal?
（腼腆地）可…不知道究竟有没有办法可以飞升成功…¤(Shyly) I...don't know if there is a way to successfully ascend...
（腼腆地）三妹并不是模仿的别人…而是诞生于我们的自我怀疑。¤(The shyly) third sister was not imitating others... but was born out of our self-doubt.
多谢荧儿。只是不知荧儿可有想好以后的打算？¤Thank you Ying'er. I just don't know if Ying'er has thought about her future plans?
那荧儿便在此好生养伤罢，相信借助气旋与神阴石，不日便能恢复如初。¤Then let Ying'er recover here and take good care of her injuries. I believe that with the help of the vortex and the shenyin stone, she will be able to recover completely in a few days.
（腼腆地）那…你以后还会来吗？¤(Shyly) Will you come again in the future?
道别后，你便离开了这座充满不幸的岛。¤After saying goodbye, you left this unfortunate island.
唉…只是不知道又要修炼多久…¤Ah...I just don't know how long I have to cultivate again...
（腼腆地）可…如果不这样的话，我存在的意义又是什么呢…¤(Shyly) But... if I don't do this, then what's the point of my existence...
（腼腆地）快住手，{ta}是我朋友！¤(Bashfully) Stop, {they} are my friend!
你们究竟是谁？¤Who are you guys in the end?
日后若有机会，我一定会来看望荧儿。¤If I have the opportunity in the future, I will definitely come to visit Ying'er.
但是有很多东西都在告诉我，其实我不是。¤But there are many things telling me that I am not.
但是在此之前，我们得先把损失掉的阴气吸收回来~¤But before that, we must first recover the lost Yin energy.
（腼腆地）嗯，再见啦~¤(Shyly) Well, bye bye~
每次被人欺负的时候，她便会站出来保护我，就像那个大姐姐一样。¤Whenever I am bullied, she will stand up and protect me, just like that big sister.
直到今天，我都不知道她的想法。¤Until today, I still don't know her thoughts.
这些东西虽然越来越难理解，不过最后也都没有难住我。¤These things are becoming more and more difficult to understand, but in the end, they didn't stump me.
但每次它都会总结前一次失败的经验。¤But each time it will summarize the experience of the previous failure.
（腼腆地）嗯…你想知道什么？¤Um... What do you want to know?
但现在你解释这些，不会陷入自我怀疑嘛？¤But if you explain these now, won't you fall into self-doubt?
没想到随着这些想法越来越多，她也慢慢成长为一个人格。¤I didn't expect that as these thoughts increased, she also slowly grew into a person.
在它克服掉所有困难之后，最终它终于成为了金鹏。¤After overcoming all difficulties, it finally became the Golden Peng.
（腼腆地）我在变成人以后，就一直坚信自己是人，二姐也告诉我我是人。¤(Shyly) After I have become a human, I have always believed that I am a human, and Second Sister also told me that I am a human.
不知荧儿今后将作何打算？¤I wonder what Ying'er's future plans are?
人类修士修行，大抵也只是为了寻觅长生而已。¤Human cultivators cultivate in search of eternal life.
它一次次想要融入金鹏，又一次次失败。¤It repeatedly tried to merge with the Golden Peng, but failed each time.
我变成过山石、河流、草木、妖兽……甚至还变成过一轮小一点的月亮。¤I have transformed into mountain rocks, rivers, plants, spirit beasts... and even a smaller moon.
（腼腆地）嗯…我们会一起聊聊这件事，如果顺利的话，应该会坚持下去吧…¤Hmm... we will talk about this together. If things go smoothly, we should be able to persist.
我们感应到的，并不是那里…而是，别的东西…¤What we sense, is not here...but something else...
（腼腆地）……¤(Shyly)......
（腼腆地）这是我准备飞升时所想到的一些东西，也不知道对你有没有用，总之先送给你啦~¤(Shyly) These are some thoughts I had when I was preparing to ascend, I don't know if they'll be useful to you, but I'll give them to you anyway~
一连串问题在你脑海中闪过，却没有答案。¤A series of questions flash through your mind, but there are no answers.
迅速浏览一遍后，那玉简便悄然消失了，只剩下一些你暂时还理解不了的东西留在了你的脑海中。¤After quickly skimming through it, the jade slip quietly disappeared, leaving only some things that you temporarily couldn't understand in your mind.
哈哈哈哈哈，既然你早就决定好了道路，又有何好纠结的？¤Hahaha, since you've already decided on your path, what's there to be conflicted about?
（腼腆地）但是……¤(Shyly) But...
片刻后，她用自身阴气模拟出了一个“玉简”递给了你。¤After a moment, she simulated a jade slip with her own Yin Qi and handed it to you.
就当我以为没有东西可以难到我的时候，我遇到了她。¤Just when I thought there was nothing that could stump me, I met her.
场面安静了下来。你一时也想不到什么想说的，便觉已是分别之时。¤The scene quieted down. You couldn't think of anything to say for a while and felt that it was time to depart.
（冷静地）…三妹便是如此，天赋最高，但也最为疯狂。¤(Calmly)... Third sister is like this, she has the highest talent, but also the most crazy.
（冷静地）的确也没什么好隐瞒的了。¤There's really nothing to hide (calmly).
此前多有冒犯，道友还请见谅。¤Beforehand, there have been many offenses, fellow daoist please forgive me.
话说回来，我都以为你们已经飞升成功了，后来又是如何失败的？¤Speaking of which, I thought you had all successfully ascended, so how did you end up failing?
但有一个大姐姐不一样——她很冷静，不被情绪左右，还一直保护我。¤But there was one big sister who was different——she was very calm, not swayed by emotions, and always protected me.
（冷静地）三妹，休得胡来。¤Calm down, Third Sister, don't act recklessly.
向之恒¤Mukai Tsune.
我不接受这些想法，于是就把它们丢弃在了角落。¤I do not accept these ideas, so I just discarded them in the corner.
不就是一次失败而已，在你无限的生命中，这区区数万年，不过瞬间而已，何足为虑？¤Isn't it just a failure? In your infinite life, these tens of thousands of years are just a momentary blip. What's there to worry about?
它可以做任何自己想做的事，而不会被自己的身份限制。¤It can do anything it wants, without being limited by its own identity.
（腼腆地）最开始，我只是极阴之地机缘巧合所生、一团有灵智的阴气而已。¤(Shyly) At the very beginning, I was just born through a fortuitous encounter in the extremely Yin land, and was just a mass of spiritual Yin energy.
李司魂¤: Lee Soul
它最后没有融入金鹏，也没有回归灵雀，它便是它自己，唯一一只会修炼的灵雀。¤It did not finally merge with the Golden Peng, nor did it return to the Spirit Sparrow. It was just itself the only spirit sparrow that could cultivate.
这样的结局，荧儿是否满意呢？¤Is Ying'er satisfied with this ending?
那三妹又是在模仿谁呢？¤Who is Little Sister Three imitating again?
（腼腆地）嗯…我们会一起聊聊这件事，如果顺利的话，应该会融为一体吧…¤(Hesitantly) Well...we'll talk about this together. If all goes smoothly, we should merge as one...
荧儿，都告诉{ta}吧。¤Yinger, tell {ta}.
原来如此…这么说，当年你二姐不让我追问，其实是不想让你陷入自我怀疑？¤Oh, I see now... So you mean when your second sister prevented me from asking you about it, it was actually to keep you from doubting yourself?
……罢了，既然事已至此，阁下的过往可否告知一二？¤...That's it, since things have come to this, can you tell me about your past?
这就是你看到的二姐。¤This is the second sister you see.
无尘¤Dust  - Without dust 
那你的二姐又是怎么来的？¤How did your second elder sister come here?
从此它便可以与金鹏同伴一起，上天入地，逍遥自在！¤From then on, it can accompany the Golden Peng and roam freely through heaven and earth in prosperity!
后来她不在了，我很想她，但是我又没有办法把她融入到本体的人格，于是就模仿了她的人格。¤Later, she was gone and I missed her very much, but I couldn't integrate her into my own personality, so I imitated her personality.
她会怎么想呢？再见到的时候还会是她么？¤What will she think? Will she still be the same person when we meet again?
自我怀疑？¤Self-doubt?
如果是之前的话肯定会，但在飞升失败之后，我反而能接受这些想法了。¤If it was before, then I would certainly do it, but after failing to ascend, I can actually accept these ideas.
只要坚定了自己的信念，一次次累积经验，又有什么可以难倒你？¤As long as you remain steadfast in your beliefs and accumulate experience time and time again, what can stop you?
三妹虽然性格很奇怪，但却是个天才，有很多我和二姐都办不到的事情，她却能做到。¤Although the third sister has a strange personality, she is a genius and can do many things that my second sister and I cannot do.
你既然从一开始便就是不死不灭的存在，再变成人修行、岂不是本末倒置？¤Since you have been undying from the beginning, wouldn't it be counterproductive to cultivate into a human now?
你注意到她的语气中带有几分惭愧。¤You noticed a hint of guilt in her tone.
就当她准备再次出手时，全身突然剧烈地抖动起来。你能感受到他身上的暴戾慢慢消失不见，冷静与善良逐渐占据上风。¤Just as she was about to make another move, her whole body suddenly trembled violently. You could feel the ferocity on her slowly disappearing, replaced by calmness and kindness.
当年你不是好奇那只灵雀的结局嘛？¤Back then, weren't you curious about the outcome of that spiritual sparrow?
她很可爱，很善良，但有时候又会做出一些我完全没法理解的举动…¤She is cute and kind, but sometimes she does things that I can't understand at all...
（腼腆地）后来我来到了一个人类的小镇，但那里的人都觉得我是异类，都欺负我…¤(Awkwardly) Later on, I arrived at a human town, but the people there all thought of me as a freak and bullied me...
“罢了，此事还是不要多问为好…”¤Let it be, it's better not to ask too much about this matter...
魏无极¤It is not clear what is being asked for in the third point. Please provide more information or clarification.
她究竟能不能飞升？如果真的不能飞升的话，她会一直去尝试，又一直失败，陷入痛苦的循环嘛？¤Can she really ascend? If she truly cannot ascend, would she continue to try and fail, trapped in a painful cycle?
那个时候一切都充满了未知，我理解事物的唯一方法，就是变成那个东西。¤At that time, everything was full of unknowns. The only way I could understand things was by becoming that thing.
你是二姐？此前那人究竟是什么人？为何突然对我出手？¤Are you the second sister? Who was that person before and why did they suddenly attack me?
依我看，每个人都有所不同，为何一定要变成别人呢？¤In my opinion, everyone is different, why do we have to become someone else?
她的眼角似乎有白色的阴气逸散开来，就好像在流泪一样，你能感受到她的失落。¤Her eyes seemed to emit white gloomy air from the corners, as if she was shedding tears, and you could feel her sense of loss.
嗯…就是我现在变成的那个人。¤Well...It's the person I have become now.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请你届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing to undergo the transition to ascension, and has specifically asked me to invite you to attend the ceremony.
白鹿也不言语，只是点了点头表示回复，而后便开始认真检查请帖的内容。¤The white deer did not speak, only nodded in response, and then began to carefully examine the contents of the invitation.
好。我会前往。¤Okay. I will go.
哈哈哈哈，先说好了，我可不会留手。¤Hahaha, first of all, I won't hold back.
这是自然…没想到真能在擂台上一战。¤This is natural... I didn't expect to truly be able to battle on the arena.
哈哈哈，我们又见面了。¤Hahaha, we meet again.
天机大比{$dixlun}，由{FirstName}{LastName}对阵{$TmpStrValue}！¤The Heavenly Machine Competition {$dixlun}, with {FirstName}{LastName} facing off against {$TmpStrValue}!
来吧。¤Come.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，可还记得当年的约定？¤{FirstName} brother, do you still remember the promise we made back then?
浪方大圣张开如夜空一般的大口，一股不可阻挡的恐怖吸引力将周遭所有的灵气、海水、妖兽、船只全部吸入体内...¤Great Sage Langfang opens his mouth, which is like the night sky, an unstoppable force of terrifying gravity draws in all the spiritual energy, seawater, spirit beasts, and ships in the surrounding area into his body...
这位{gongzi}，要参加下一次的拍卖会么？入场费只要10灵石噢~¤Would you like to participate in the next auction, {gongzi}? The entry fee is only 10 spirit stones~
{gongzi}，这是我们拍卖行的传音符印记，日后{gongzi}若是想知道最新的拍品情况，直接用{color=#d0380a}传音符{/color}与我们联系便可。¤{gongzi}, this is the sound talisman imprint of our auction house. If you want to know the latest auction item information in the future, simply use the sound talisman to contact us.
按照惯例，在拍卖成功后，我们还会收取您成交价的10%作为抽水。不过若是物品流拍，就不会再另外收取费用啦。¤As usual, after a successful auction, we will also take 10% of your transaction price as commission. But if the item fails to be sold, no additional fees will be charged.
为了保证拍卖会的质量，我们会请专门的鉴定师对拍品进行鉴定。因此，所有价值低于50灵石的物品都是不允许在这里寄卖的。¤To ensure the quality of the auction, we will invite dedicated appraisers to appraise the items. Therefore, all items worth less than 50 spirit stones are not allowed to be consigned here.
不知这宁州古迹的传承中有没有神识绝学...¤I wonder if there is any soul sense technique in the inheritance of the Ning Province ancient ruin...
我曾听老祖提及，宁州古迹乃是上古时期的古原城坍塌而成，而那古原城以城主建立的...什么殿最为出名，其内似乎有着十分强大的功法传承。¤I have heard from my ancestor that the ancient ruins of Ningzhou were formed from the collapse of the Gu Yuan City in ancient times. The most famous building within the city that was built by the city lord was known for its powerful technique inheritance.
你眼前是一片灵药田，不同于你之前所见的药田，其中有丝丝龙脉之力散发而出。¤You are standing in front of a spiritual herbs field, different from the ones you have seen before, where threads of the power of dragon veins emanate from it.
可惜了，此地荒废太久了。¤Unfortunately, this place has been abandoned for too long.
嗯，龙族相较于我们人族，堪称天之宠儿。¤Well, compared to our human race, the Dragon Clan can be considered as the darlings of heaven.
你神识扫过药田，并没有什么发现。¤Your soul sense swept through the herbs field, but did not find anything.
这灵药园应该是龙族培养药材的地方，更容易催生出龙皇果之类的药材。¤This spirit medicine garden should be the place where the dragon clan grows medicinal materials, making it easier to cultivate medicinal materials like sovereign drakefruit.
画中，右上角一条吞云蟒盘踞在云中，左下角一名老者正骑着仙鹤，二者凌空对视，似在斗法。¤In the painting, a cloud swallowing boa is coiled among the clouds in the upper right corner, while an old man is riding a crane in the lower left corner. The two are facing each other in mid-air, as if engaged in a battle of magic.
右下角，一只白狐翘着尾巴蹲坐在地面，向空中望去，似在观摩。画面栩栩如生，你仿佛能看到当年一人一蟒斗法的场景。¤In the lower right corner, a white fox sat crouched on the ground with its tail curled up, looking up at the sky as if observing. The picture was vivid and lifelike, and you could almost see the scene of one person fighting a python.
你飞上山峰向下望去，这地面表面上平平无奇，但小坑中那若有若无的灵气联系起来后，却赫然形成了一幅画。¤You flew up to the mountaintop and looked down. The ground surface was plain, but the faint spiritual energy in the small pits formed a painting that was remarkable.
一般擅使成套的剑阵或是飞针类法宝的修士，对于灵气的操控精度都比常人更高。这等人物在海上多半也是名声显赫的一方大能，日后多留意一番，或许能打听到什么。¤A cultivator who excels in using sword arrays or flying needle type artifacts typically has a higher precision in manipulating spiritual energy compared to ordinary people. Such individuals are often powerful figures in the seas and it would be wise to keep an eye out for them to possibly gain some information in the future.
奇怪，这些小坑似乎不是自然形成的，隐约还能察觉到一丝灵气的波动...莫非是某种阵法？¤Strange, these small pits don't seem to have formed naturally, and there is a faint fluctuation of spiritual energy... Could it be some kind of array?
普通以剑气作画，也不算什么难事。但如果想像这样将灵气凝于一点，多年不散，老夫自问也是做不到的。¤Drawing using sword qi is not a difficult task for ordinary people. However, if one wishes to condense spiritual energy into a single point and maintain it for many years, even I as an old man cannot accomplish it.
你走到一片开阔地，此处杂草丛生，只是地上有一些小坑时而整齐、时而杂乱地排列着。¤You come to an open area where the weeds are overgrown. There are some small pits on the ground, which are arranged neatly or haphazardly from time to time.
这些灵气凝而不散，也不知保持了多少年了，真是了不起的手法。¤These spiritual energies have condensed and not dispersed, I wonder how many years they have been maintained, truly incredible techniques.
{FirstName}道友！¤Hello fellow daoist {FirstName}!
你二人道别过后，便各自离开了天魔眼。¤After bidding farewell to each other, the two of you each left the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
这些是我在天魔眼中找到的东西，你不嫌弃的话就收下吧。¤These are the things I found in the Heavenly Devil's Eye. Please take them if you don't mind.
她迟疑了一瞬。¤She hesitated for a moment.
很久之前？莫非此前发生过什么变故？¤A long time ago? Did something unexpected happen before this?
你师兄呢？没和你在一起吗？¤Where is your senior brother? Isn't he with you?
他本身修炼就快，又深受宗门器重，所以一直都是同辈中的佼佼者。¤His cultivation speed was already fast, and he was highly valued by the clan, so he had always been one of the outstanding peers.
在那之后，他不仅修炼得更加努力，还经常指点师弟师妹们，宗门上下都非常喜欢他。¤After that, he not only cultivated more diligently but also often gave guidance to his junior and senior sisters, making everyone in the clan like him very much.
变故？¤Unexpected Event?
这件事其实我也不太清楚，只知道以前发生过一次变故。¤I'm not sure about this matter either, I only know that there was a mishap before.
那个时候他并不像现在这样体恤同门，反而是有些恃才傲物。¤At that time, he was not as considerate of his fellow disciples as he is now. Instead, he was somewhat arrogant due to his talent.
他护送我出来之后，便去清点其他弟子了。¤After he escorted me out, he went to check on the other disciples.
嗯，他身具天灵根，刚入门便被掌门看中，是掌门唯一的关门弟子。¤Well, he has the heavenly spirit root and was spotted by the master right after joining the sect, becoming the only closed-door disciple of the master.
有一次，我……¤There was a time when I...
是嘛？此前他照顾你如此细致，我还以为你们之间的关系非同一般。¤Is that so? He took care of you so carefully before, I thought your relationship was extraordinary.
嗯……¤Hmm...
我就是被你救下来的那个人，只是当时伤势太重，没来得及感谢你。¤I am the person you saved, but my injuries were too severe at the time and I didn't have a chance to thank you.
原来如此，难怪天魔眼中他照顾你如此细致。¤Originally, no wonder the Heavenly Devil's Eye took care of you so meticulously.
举手之劳罢了，道友不必多礼。¤It's just a small effort, no need to be polite, fellow daoist.
她眉飞色舞地说起了李青麟在门内的“光辉事迹”，整整说了一炷香时间才消停下来。¤She excitedly talked about Li Qinglin's glorious deeds inside the sect, only stopping after a full stick of incense time.
没有啦，很久之前，大师兄对同门师兄弟们就都是这样了。¤No more, a long time ago, Senior Brother treated his fellow martial brothers like this.
天魔眼之行结束后，你刚准备离去，突然一道声音叫住了你。¤After the Heavenly Devil's Eye journey ended, you were just about to leave when a voice suddenly called out to you.
嗯…总之，这次的还是要谢谢你。¤Well... anyway, thank you for this time.
“想不到之前竟有如此变故。”¤I never expected such a major change to occur before.
直到那次变故后，掌门罚他闭门思过，出关时就像变了一个人似的，再也没有以前的傲气，变得越来越谦和了。¤Until the incident, the master punished him with self-reflection in seclusion. When he came out of seclusion, he was like a different person, without the arrogance he had before, becoming more and more humble.
敢问道友是？¤May I ask, fellow daoist, who you are?
再说我们之间又没有什么特殊关系，干嘛老是待在一起？¤Moreover, we don't have any special relationship, why do we always hang out together?
先是几道似有似无的雷鸣之声，由远及近。¤At first, there were several faint thunderous sounds, gradually getting closer.
阴风怒号，浊浪排空，日星隐曜，山岳潜形......\r\n一盏茶，一柱香的功夫，大半个海域便被笼罩在这滚滚浓云之下。¤The yin wind howled angrily, murky waves cleared the sky, and the sun and stars stealthily disappeared; mountains and peaks vanished from sight......\r\nWith just a sip of tea and the burning of an incense, half of the vast ocean became shrouded in these rolling, dense clouds.
伴随着地裂山崩般的一声炸雷，空中凝聚的墨云霎时之间疯狂起来，好似惊涛骇浪一般，向着四面八方翻涌而去，迅速遮蔽了整个天空，浩浩汤汤，无边无际......¤With a thunderous blast like the splitting of mountains and cracking of the earth, the ink clouds that had gathered in the sky began to surge and churn like tidal waves, rapidly covering the entire sky in a vast and endless expanse of horrific waves...
你体内的精纯灵气似被某种至高无上的力量牵引着，\r连带着身体周围的天地灵气一起，慢慢翻滚涌动着，再也无法抑制。¤The pure spiritual energy in your body seems to be pulled by some supreme power, and along with the surrounding spiritual energy of heaven and earth, it slowly churns and surges, unable to be restrained any longer.
你眉头一皱，意识到，{color=#d0380a}天劫{/color}就要降临了。¤Your brows furrowed as you realized that {color=#d0380a}The Heavenly Calamity{/color} was about to descend.
轰———————————————————————¤Boom!———————————————————————
一股强大的气流把你从浪方大圣的体内冲了出来，你扭头看去，只见浪方巨大的躯体正以极快的速度向着深海潜去。¤A strong current swept you out of the body of Great Sage Langfang. You turned your head and saw the huge body of Langfang rapidly diving into the deep sea.
所有人，都在翘首观望，或许，一个新的{color=#d0380a}飞升神话{/color}，就要诞生了。¤Everyone is looking forward with anticipation, perhaps a new Myth of Ascension {color=#d0380a}will be born{/color}.
这一看，便不知过了多少万年。¤At a glance, it was unclear how many millions of years had passed.
相似的剧情在你眼前一遍又一遍地不断上演。¤Similar plots are constantly being replayed in front of you.
整个世界在你的神识之下一览无余，而你却改变不了分毫，只得孤独地任由世界自行衍变。¤The whole world is within your soul sense, yet you cannot change it in the slightest, only enduring the loneliness and letting the world evolve on its own.
你看见乞讨路边的孤儿飞黄腾达，也看见高枕无忧的显贵惨遭暗算…¤You see the orphan begging by the roadside flying yellow to success, and also see the dignitaries who sleep soundly under their high pillows fall victim to an assassination…
起初，你会想改变些什么，但你做不到。¤Initially, you will want to change something, but you can't.
看见滴水汇成江河，看见沧海化为桑田…¤I see drops of water converge into rivers, I see the ocean transform into mulberry fields...
你别无他法，只得将注意力放在这个世界上。但很快，你便被这个世界上所发生的事所吸引。¤You have no other choice but to focus on this world. But soon, you will be drawn to the things that happen in this world.
阁主¤Pavilion Master
当这个世界上最后一人死去时，所有画面戛然而止，你的神魂被强行弹出这个世界。¤When the last person in this world dies, all scenes come to a sudden stop, and your soul is forcibly ejected from this world.
看见善恶终有报，看见斗转星挪移…¤Seeing good and evil receive their just rewards, seeing the turning star shift in battle...
你注意到了一个繁华的国度，看见大街小巷里有趣的人，看见人们身上发生的故事…¤You noticed a prosperous kingdom, saw interesting people in the streets and alleys, saw the stories happening on people's bodies...
你看见喜怒哀惧爱恶欲，看见生老病死入轮回…¤You witness joy, anger, grief, fear, love, hate, desire, witness the cycle of birth, aging, sickness, and death...
又过了不知多久，一场前所未有的浩劫席卷了这个世界，没有一人得以幸免。¤After an unknown amount of time passed, an unprecedented catastrophe swept through this world, and no one was spared.
你看见为国捐躯的枯骨无人问津，也看见独揽横财的商贾八面玲珑…¤You see the neglected bones of those who sacrificed themselves for their country, and also see the shrewd merchants who manipulate situations skillfully for their own gain.
这是一个没有灵力的世界。¤This is a world without spiritual power.
最后，你无动于衷。¤In the end, you remained indifferent.
后来，你觉得就算改变了什么，对这个世界也毫无影响。¤Later, you feel that even if something is changed, it has no shadowless impact on this world.
化神初始仙性+4，心境+500。¤Deity transformation initial immortality +4, mental state +500.
你看见群狼环伺的小国迅速崛起，也看见盛极一时的王朝走向毁灭…¤You see a small country surrounded by wolves rapidly rise, and you also see a dynasty that was once at its peak walking towards its destruction...
老爷爷¤Old grandpa
你看见忧国忧民的诗人饿死家中，也看见灯红酒绿的醉客逍遥自在…¤You see the poet who worries for the country and people starving at home, as well as the relaxed and carefree revelers enjoying prosperity.
你看见呱呱坠地的婴儿溘然早逝，也看见行将就木的老者苟延甲子…¤You witness the tragic death of a baby who failed to survive and see the old man who is on the brink of death and has lived for centuries.
道友，若是没有需求，还是速速离开。¤Fellow daoist, if there is no need, please depart quickly.
可惜九州战乱的那数万年间，不仅各大宗门传承有损，许多古籍也下落不明。否则此等灵物，当不会完全没有记载才是。¤Unfortunately, during the tens of thousands of years of chaos in the Nine Provinces, not only were the inheritances of various major clans damaged, but many ancient books also went missing. Otherwise, such spiritual objects would not be completely undocumented.
那...那人到底是...¤What...who exactly is that person...
那个身影开始顺着光柱慢慢向上飞去，而你眼前的画面再次破碎，又一次坠入了虚空。¤The figure began to slowly fly up the light column, and the scene in front of you shattered again, falling into the void once more.
或许不是古籍被毁，而是真的从来没有人见到过这古树的全貌吧...¤Perhaps it's not that the ancient books were destroyed, but that no one has really seen the whole picture of this ancient tree...
这里是无尽之海？但那两只...难道是传说中的神兽玄武和鲲鹏？¤Is this the endless sea? But those two... Could it be the legendary divine beasts, the Black Tortoise and the Kunpeng?
你感应到什么了？¤What have you sensed?
而在这片宫殿的上方，有一人凭空漂浮于半空中，负手而立。¤And above this palace, there is a person floating in mid-air, standing with hands behind their back.
四柄魔剑组合而成的剑阵飞速旋转，似乎正在酝酿着惊世骇俗的一击。而在你的身后，另一股强大的剑意也在慢慢凝聚。¤The sword array formed by the combination of four demon swords is rapidly spinning, seemingly preparing for a world-shocking strike. And behind you, another powerful sword intent is slowly gathering.
魏无极的声音彻底惊醒了你，你向四周望去，不知何时，那些原本已经静止不动的根须又开始向你靠近。¤Wei Wuji's voice completely wake you up, you look around and, at some unknown time, those originally motionless root whiskers started approaching you again.
漂浮于这片虚空中的画面碎片逐渐减少，但远远的，你似乎看到一道光源向你慢慢靠近。¤The fragments of the scene floating in this void gradually decreased, but in the distance, you seem to see a light source slowly approaching you.
你重新把手贴在树干上，下一秒，你的眼前又浮现出了那片废墟的画面。¤You put your hands back on the tree trunk again, and the next second, the image of the ruins appeared in front of your eyes again.
当年仅仅是其中一条根须，便让我与倪兄二人几乎命丧于此，今日若非凭借诛仙剑之能，我多半也只能望而却步。¤Back then, just one of these root whiskers nearly cost the lives of me and my brother Ni. If not for the power of the immortal sword, I likely would have had to turn back today.
画面戛然而止，你猛然将手从树干上抽离，惊出了一身冷汗。¤The screen suddenly stopped, and you jerked your hand away from the tree trunk, startled and sweating profusely.
若真是天地初生时便诞生的先天灵物，千万年来长成什么样子都不足为奇。¤If it is indeed a prehistoric spiritual object that was born at the beginning of heaven and earth, it is not surprising that it has grown into any shape over the past thousand years.
恐怖的能量四下翻涌，激起数千丈高的巨浪。而在巨浪之下，你一眼便看到两只体型无比巨大的妖兽正在海面上战斗。¤Terrifying energy surged around, causing waves thousands of feet high. And beneath the waves, you could see two extremely large spirit beasts battling on the ocean surface.
不可思议...如此奇树，当真是此界能够孕育出来的么？¤Incredible...such a strange tree, is it truly something that could be born in this world?
你将手掌贴在树干上，下一秒，你的识海一阵轰鸣，仿佛突然置身于一片废墟之中。¤You place your palm on the tree trunk, and the next second, your mind is hit by a loud roar, as if suddenly thrown into ruins.
你神识修为虽不突出，但全力探查下至少也可以覆盖一小片海域，却仍然无法探查出这古树的全貌。¤Although your soul sense cultivation is not outstanding, with full exploration, it can at least cover a small sea area, but still cannot fully investigate the complete appearance of this ancient tree.
你顺着这些根须一路来到了古树茎干前，有了诛仙剑的庇护，果然一路无事。¤You followed these root whiskers all the way to the front of the ancient tree trunk. With the protection of the Immortal Sword, there were indeed no incidents along the way.
你向那光源的方向眯起眼睛努力看去，模模糊糊的看到了一片宏伟的宫殿，都是你从未见到过的建筑风格。¤You squinted your eyes towards the source of light, trying hard to see, and saw a magnificent palace that had a construction style you had never seen before.
或许是因为诛仙剑的关系，我似乎能够感应到这古树的某种情绪。这种情绪...是厌恶，还是恐惧？¤Perhaps due to the relationship with the Immortal Sword, I seem to be able to sense some kind of emotion from this ancient tree. Is this emotion... disgust or fear?
我刚刚...似乎看到了一个废墟...有一个实力强大的男子在与其他人战斗。¤I just... seemed to have seen ruins... where a powerful man was engaged in combat with others.
一道道雷劫带着万钧之势落下，他的灵气护罩却只是微微颤动，片刻之后，反而气势更盛。¤A series of thunder kalpas fell with the force of ten thousand jun, but his spiritual energy shield only trembled slightly. After a moment, its momentum grew even stronger.
一道恐怖的能量从天而降，竟将海面直接一劈为二，仿佛是直接划开了空间一般，留下一道深不见底的深沟。¤A terrifying energy descended from the sky, splitting the sea in half as if directly cutting through space, leaving behind a bottomless trench.
那人...应该就是之前在幻境中被我击败的那个魔修。¤That person...should be the demonic cultivator that I defeated in the illusionary realm before.
这些...难道是古树的梦境碎片？¤Are these... fragments of the ancient tree's dream?
远处，一个身材高大的修士正操控着飞剑上下翻飞，独自一人与数百名修士交战。¤In the distance, a tall cultivator is controlling a flying sword to battle alone with hundreds of other cultivators.
不远处，一块尤为庞大的碎片向你慢慢飘来。¤In the distance, a particularly large fragment slowly drifted towards you.
但眼前的庞然大物与其说这是古树的主干，倒不如说，它是由成百上千根粗细不一的根须互相缠绕而成，形成的一个类似于树干的存在。¤But the massive object before them, rather than being the trunk of an ancient tree, could better be described as a tangled mass of hundreds, if not thousands, of roots of varying thickness, intertwined with each other to create a trunk-like structure.
你沿着主干用神识向海底探去，除了此前在海底肉眼可见的百余条根须外，隐藏于地下竟还有成千上万条感知不到尽头的根须，以此为中心向四面八方延展。¤You use your soul sense to explore towards the bottom of the sea along the main trunk. In addition to the hundreds of visible root whiskers at the bottom of the sea, there are tens of thousands of root whiskers hidden underground that cannot be perceived, extending in all directions from this center.
你正暗自思量，却发现那人仿佛察觉到了什么，忽而转头向你所在的位置望来。¤You were secretly pondering, but found that the person seemed to have sensed something and suddenly turned his head to look towards your location.
你离这光源越来越近...忽然，那人仿佛察觉到了什么，微微侧头，然后转身向你看来，正迎上你的视线。¤You're getting closer to the light source... Suddenly, that person seemed to sense something, slightly turned his head, and then turned around to look at you, meeting your gaze.
刚刚看到的这些画面似乎是按着时间的顺序再慢慢往前推移...那接下来的会是...？¤Just now, the scenes I saw seemed to be slowly moving forward in chronological order... What will come next...?
你想要避开，却发现自己动弹不得...两股强横的力量在你身边相撞，脚下的土地与空间都开始碎裂，你也跟着一起坠入虚空之中。¤You want to avoid it, but find yourself unable to move...two powerful forces collide around you, and the land and space beneath your feet begin to shatter. You also fall into the void together.
与其说是看到了幻象，反而更像是...我进入到了古树的梦境？¤Rather than saying that I saw an illusion, it was more like... I entered into the dream realm of the ancient tree.
你一头扎进了眼前这块巨大的碎片中，又是一阵天旋地转后，你竟来到了一片海域之上。¤You plunged into the huge pieces in front of you and, after a moment of dizziness, you found yourself on a sea.
随着最后一道雷劫劈落，只见一道金光闪过，旋即爆发出骇人的能量，竟将半空中的劫云完全击散，连你附近的空间都出现了一道巨大的裂痕。¤As the final thunder kalpa strikes down, a golden light flashes and immediately erupts with terrifying energy, completely scattering the robbery clouds in mid-air. Even a huge crack appears in the space near you.
这是...劫云？是谁在渡劫？¤Is this...Tribulation Cloud? Who is undergoing tribulation?
若这些画面都是曾经真实发生过的，那此前看到的那片废墟，或许就是因为那场正魔大战跌入空间裂隙中的古原城。¤If these scenes were all once truly happened, then the ruins previously seen may have been Gu Yuan City that fell into the space rift during the war between righteous and demonic forces.
其中一只妖兽形似旋龟，但背上还依附着一条巨大的蟒蛇。另一只妖兽体型堪比浪方，却长着巨大的翅膀，能够在空中飞行。¤One of the spirit beasts resembles a whirling turtle, but also has a giant python attached to its back. The other spirit beast is as big as a Langfang, but has huge wings and can fly in the air.
传说昔日的九州飞升第一人，便是金虹剑派老祖金虹剑仙...刚刚看到的画面，莫非便是金虹剑仙飞升时的情景...¤Legend has it that the first person to ascend to the Nine Provinces in ancient times was the founder of the Jin Hong Sword Sect, Immortal Jin Hong Sword... The scene we just saw, could it be the scene of Immortal Jin Hong Sword ascending to immortality...
不，不一样。视角是不同的...¤No, it's different. The perspective is different...
大大小小的画面碎片从你身旁缓缓飘过，而你在这片虚空中只能勉强控制自己移动的方向。¤Small and large fragments of images float slowly past you, and in this void, you can barely control the direction of your movement.
这些画面碎片有大有小...到底代表着什么呢？¤These fragmented images vary in size... What do they represent in the end?
你从未见过如此恐怖的海兽，若与他们相比，如今无尽之海上盛名的四大妖圣，简直不值一提。¤You have never seen such terrifying sea beasts. Compared to them, the four great demon saints who are famous in the endless sea are simply not worth mentioning.
那魔修虽被数百名修士围攻，却全然未处于下风，反而收放自如的操纵着四柄魔剑，将那些人一一斩杀。¤Although surrounded by hundreds of cultivators, that demon cultivator was not at a disadvantage at all. Instead, he freely manipulated four demon swords and killed each and every one of them with a chop.
别愣着了，快走！¤Don't just stand there, hurry up and leave!
天空之上，乌云密布，雷声轰鸣，与师兄白帝渡劫时的情景相差无二。而你正处于半空之中，俯视着下方。¤Above the sky, the dark clouds are densely covered, thunder is roaring, and the scene is no different from the one when senior brother White Emperor crossed the tribulation. And you are in mid-air, overlooking below.
玄武与鲲鹏仍在视若无睹的大战，而两侧的海水则源源不断的涌入这道深沟，连你也被一起卷入，重新回到了那片虚空之中。¤The battle between the Black Tortoise and the Kunpeng continues, while the seawater on both sides constantly pours into this deep trench, pulling you along with it and returning you to that void again.
有了上一次的经历，这次你没有惊慌，而是任由自己在这片空间中飘荡。¤With the experience from last time, you didn't panic this time, but instead let yourself drift in this space.
万年前的正魔大战，二十余万年前的金虹剑仙飞升，还有仅存于神话中的上古神兽...¤The ancient battle between good and evil that took place ten thousand years ago, the ascension of the Radiant Sword Immortal over twenty thousand years ago, and the existence of ancient mythical creatures only found in myth.
你向劫云的中心方向望去，只见一人独自于山峰之上盘腿而坐。不出所料，此人也正是刚刚在幻境中对你出手的金虹剑派修士。¤You looked towards the center of the calamity clouds and saw a person sitting cross-legged alone on a mountain peak. As expected, this person was the cultivator from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect who had just attacked you in the illusionary realm.
轰!!!{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Boom!!!{vpunch=10,0.5}
这画面只是短短的出现了一瞬，随着你下意识的将手从树干上抽离，便又立刻消失了。¤The scene only appeared for a moment, as you instinctively withdrew your hand from the tree trunk, it immediately disappeared.
又是幻象么？太冒险了，看来诛仙剑也无法完全...¤Is it another illusion? Too risky, it seems that even the Immortal Sword is unable to completely...
一个熟悉的画面碎片突然出现在你眼前，你努力的往那个方向飘去。一阵天旋地转后，你又来到了一个新的场景。¤A familiar fragment of a picture suddenly appears before your eyes, and you float towards that direction. After a dizzy spell, you find yourself in a new scene.
凭你如今的神识，全力探查下几乎可以覆盖小半片图南海，却仍然无法探查出这古树的全貌。¤With your current soul sense, you can thoroughly investigate and cover almost half of the South Tu Sea, yet still cannot fully explore the appearance of this ancient tree.
这和刚刚攻击我的幻象有什么关联么...？¤What does this have to do with the illusion that just struck me...?
{shidi}的修为又精进不少，但出手却能做到张弛有度，真是难能可贵。¤{shidi}'s cultivation has improved significantly, yet they are able to maintain a balanced approach in their actions, truly admirable.
台下前来挑战的众人见状，竟再无一人敢打你主意...¤The people who came to challenge on stage saw the situation and no one dared to have any ideas about you...
此战你虽然赢得了一个好口碑，但上台挑战者也是络绎不绝...¤Although you have won a good reputation in this battle, the challengers on stage are also endless...
对手才不过炼气初期，法术也用的不太巧妙，根本不是你一招之敌。你故意收了几分力，没有让他输得太过难看。¤The opponent is only at the early qi refining stage, and their use of spells is not very skillful. They are not your match with just one move. You deliberately held back some strength, not allowing them to lose too miserably.
前辈，此时正值本门招新之时，晚辈就先去忙了。\n\t¤Senior, it is currently the time for recruitment of newcomers in our sect, so I will go and attend to that first.
对手才不过炼气初期，法术也用的不太巧妙，根本不是你一招之敌。你随便捏了一个法决，就将他击出了场外。¤The opponent is only at the early qi refining stage, and the spell is not used very skillfully. They are not your match with just one move. You casually used a spell and knocked them out of the field.
不错，{shidi}有没有兴趣上台守个擂，给大家露两手？¤Good, {shidi}, are you interested in stepping onto the stage to guard the arena and show off your skills to everyone?
师兄，门派又在招收外门弟子啦？¤Senior brother, is the sect recruiting outer disciples again?
你走上擂台，对手是一个看起来年不过二十的少年人，正紧张兮兮地看着你。这场守擂的测试，你决定...¤You step onto the arena, your opponent a young man who doesn't look older than twenty, nervously eyeing you. For this guarding-the-arena test, you decide...
{shidi}修为又进步了，临战实力在外门之中已是翘楚，下一次的宗门大比上说不定可以大放异彩。¤{shidi}'s cultivation has improved again, and their combat strength among the outer disciples is outstanding. Perhaps they will have a shining performance in the next Clan Competition.
师兄，此时正值本门招新之时，小弟事务繁多，就先去忙了。\n\t¤Senior brother, it is currently the time for the recruitment of newcomers in our sect. As I have a lot of matters to attend to, I will go and attend to them first.
今年来参加入门比试的新人真是差劲，连一个通过的人都没有。¤This year's newcomers who participated in the entry test are really pathetic, not a single one passed.
你在擂台上的表现引起了李青麟的注意...¤Your performance on the arena caught the attention of Li Qinglin...
不对，还得再等等。¤No, I still have to wait a bit longer.
御剑回楼逢阔少，同寻魔剑入南崖。欲知后事如何，且听下回分解。¤Riding the sword back to the building meets the young master, together searching for the demon sword in the southern cliff. To know what happens next, stay tuned for the next installment.
那我们这便出发去南崖城吧。¤Then let's depart to South Cliff City.
时间紧迫，{FirstName}{xiongdi}莫要耽搁太久。¤Time is of the essence, {FirstName} brothers, do not procrastinate for too long.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}可是准备好灵石了？¤{FirstName}, have you prepared enough spirit stones, {xiongdi}?
你将碎星商会幸存者及之后的事一一向倪旭欣说明。然后你们就幸存者浑浑噩噩的状态做出简单的讨论，不出意外的倪旭欣更加坚信漩涡中有一把魔剑，而这幸存者就是煞气入体才会如此。只是不知为何不似宁州古迹中人一般，会四处伤人。¤You explained to Ni Xuxin one by one about the surviving members of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild and what happened afterwards. Then, you had a simple discussion with the survivors in their dazed state, and without surprise, Ni Xuxin became more convinced that there was a demon sword in the vortex, which is why they were affected by baleful qi entering their bodies. However, it's unknown why they didn't attack people like the people in the ancient ruins of Ningzhou.
等{FirstName}{xiongdi}准备好再来找我吧。¤Wait until {FirstName} and his brothers are ready before coming to find me.
不急不急。¤Not urgent, not urgent.
不过，师父的魂体怎会虚弱至此？¤However, how could the soul body of my Master become so weak?
嗯...现在的诛仙剑，看起来只是一件普通的纯阳法宝，没有了魔剑的气息。应该是从那古树上得了好处。¤Hmm...the current Immortal Sword, it seems to be just an ordinary Pure Yang Magic Weapon, without the aura of a Demon Sword. It's probably gained some benefits from that ancient tree.
正是。当年我刚得到诛仙剑时，它还是一把满是锈渍的铁剑，之后也是吸收了大量的魔气和煞气才完成进阶。¤It is. When I first obtained the Immortal Sword, it was just a rusty iron sword. It was only after absorbing a large amount of Magic Qi and killing Qi that it completed its advancement.
所以它是在师父与古树战斗后才蜕变至此么？¤So it was only after the battle between the master and the ancient tree that it metamorphosed like this?
你将海底发生的事向白帝一一说明。¤You will explain to the White Emperor one by one the things that happened in the sea.
你是说，师父寄居的这把剑，竟是诛仙剑？¤Are you saying that the sword that our master is residing in is the Immortal Sword?
那古树作为道的化身，实力自不用说。没想到这诛仙剑竟能对之使用吞噬神通。这么一来，我没有认出诛仙剑，也就说得通了。¤That ancient tree, as the incarnation of the Tao, has undeniable strength. Unexpectedly, the Immortal Sword can devour the divine skill it possesses. With this, it's understandable that I didn't recognize the Immortal Sword.
是的，而且在我把诛仙剑从古树上拔出来后，后者用一记鞭击将我和倪兄击飞，直接送出了海底。¤Yes, and after I pulled out the Immortal Sword from the ancient tree, the latter used a whip strike to send me and Brother Ni flying, directly sending us to the bottom of the sea.
师父的魂体非常虚弱，但没什么大碍，在剑中静养慢慢恢复即可。¤Master's soul body is very weak, but it's not a big problem, it can slowly recover by resting in the sword.
{$shidi}还有什么要问的么？¤Is there anything else you want to ask, {$shidi}?
天魔眼内危机重重，你与同门子弟应相互守望。¤The crisis inside the Heavenly Devil's Eye is very serious, and you and your fellow disciples should keep watch over each other.
剑派锋锐，冰派灵动，雾派迅敏，虽同为水却各有特点。¤The sword sect is sharp, the ice sect is agile, and the mist sect is swift. Although they are all water-based, they each have their own characteristics.
{shixiong}且看。¤Let's see, {shixiong}.
哈哈，{shixiong}果真慧眼如炬！将地魔逼至如此地步，我等胜利在望了！¤Haha, {shixiong} truly has a sharp eye! Having pushed the earth demon to this extent, victory is within our grasp!
远处游荡着的魔物也和外围遇到的下等魔不太一样...看来这里大家所说的{color=#d0380a}中心区域{/color}吧。¤In the distance, the roaming spirit beasts are also different from the inferior demons encountered on the outskirts... It seems that this is what everyone refers to as the {color=#d0380a}central area{/color}.
你顺着他指示的方向看去，只见刀光剑影中一只赤红魔物破阵而出，各大宗弟子联手围攻却效果甚微。¤You followed his direction and saw a red spirit beast breaking formation amidst the flashing swords and knives. Despite the joint attack of the disciples from various sects, the effect was minimal.
{shixiong}有所不知，试炼之地魔物有强弱之分，往届众人屠戮的即是{shixiong}外围所见的下等魔。而正中合各宗之力共同应对的乃是地魔，实力仅次于最强的天魔。¤{shixiong}, you don't know. The {trial place} has demons of differing strengths, the ones you've seen on the outskirts are inferior demons. The ones that all the sects are working together to face are the earth demons, second only in strength to the strongest heavenly demon.
你连施法术，配合{$shidi}偷袭地魔。地魔腹部的巨口被数道法术击中，发出了痛苦的哀嚎。¤You cast spells while coordinating with {$shidi} to sneak strike the earth demon. The earth demon's huge mouth on its stomach was hit by several spells, causing it to let out a painful howl.
尚未，{shixiong}好提议，待你我合力试上一试如何？¤Not yet, {shixiong} has a good proposal, let's work together and give it a try, shall we?
转眼间只见又有数名弟子被地魔所伤，你摇了摇头，决定不再多想，便祭出法器加入了战局。¤In the blink of an eye, several disciples were injured by the earth demon. You shook your head and decided not to think too much, so you summoned your magic tool and joined the battle.
我在外围从未见过这般魔物，这......¤I have never seen such spirit beasts around the outskirts before, this...
也怪这些弟子年轻气盛，毕竟有能力到达中心地区的都是门派精锐。原本计划击败地魔后再一齐向更深处行进，没想到低估了这地魔的实力......¤The disciples were too young and arrogant. After all, only the elite disciples of the sect have the ability to reach the central region. The original plan was to defeat the earth demon before proceeding further, but they underestimated its strength...
......{$shidi}，你们可否尝试攻击地魔胸腹间的那张巨口？¤...{$shidi}, could you try striking the large mouth on the chest and abdomen of the earth demon?
你连施法术，配合{$shidi}偷袭地魔。地魔的独眼正巧被一道法术击中，发出了痛苦的哀嚎。¤You cast spells and coordinated with {$shidi} to sneak strike the earth demon. The earth demon's single eye was struck by a spell, causing it to let out a painful howl.
得手了！我们乘胜追击！¤Got it! Let's pursue and attack while we have the advantage!
不如我来替{$shidi}吸引它的注意，师兄趁机攻击！¤I'll distract it for {$shidi}, senior brother can strike while it's distracted!
你看得眼睛酸胀，也没能从中获得什么有用讯息，只觉此魔物难以攻破。¤Your eyes feel sore from looking, but you haven't gained any useful information from it. You only feel that this spirit beast is difficult to defeat.
闻言你屏息认真地观察着地魔，希望能通过之前的经验来推测它的{color=#d0380a}弱点{/color}。¤Upon hearing this, you held your breath and carefully observed the earth demon, hoping to use your previous experience to deduce its weakness.{color=#d0380a}Weakness{/color}.
不曾，想来宗门长老未曾料到我等竟敢在这天魔眼中同地魔交手便未告知。¤Never thought that the elder of the clan did not expect us to dare to fight against earth demons in the heavenly demon's eye without informing them.
话音未落一位同门{$shidi}扑上前来，将你撞向一旁。凌厉的攻击落在你方才站立之地，地面应声而裂。¤As soon as the words fell, a fellow {$shidi} rushed forward and knocked you aside. Their fierce strike hit the spot where you had just stood, causing the ground to crack.
应该没有，我也曾考虑到这点。但地魔狡猾得很，我几次偷袭都没能得手。¤There shouldn't be, I also considered this. But the earth demon is very cunning, I wasn't able to successfully sneak strike it several times.
你踏入此地后不久，便开始感到强烈的不适...充斥着整个空间的魔气仿佛有意识般朝着你的方向蜂拥而上。¤After you stepped into this place not long ago, you began to feel a strong discomfort... The magic qi that fills the entire space seems to be conscious, rushing towards you.
长老可曾传授如何战胜地魔？¤Have the elders ever taught how to defeat the earth demon?
多谢{$shidi}，此地发生了何事？¤Thank you, {$shidi}, what happened here?
前方灵气混乱，且伴随兵戈碰撞之声，定是有人激战。你加快脚步想上前一探究竟。¤There is a chaos of spiritual energy ahead, accompanied by the sound of weapons colliding, which must mean that someone is in a fierce battle. You quicken your pace, wanting to find out what's going on.
{shixiong}小心！¤Senior Brother, be careful!
咦？外围的低阶魔物额头上有眼睛吗？¤Huh? Do the low-level spirit beasts on the periphery have eyes on their foreheads?
天机大比？¤Tianji competition? 
主阁乃是阁主所在重地，若无允许，道友还是勿要接近为好。¤The main pavilion is the important place where the pavilion master resides. If there is no permission, fellow daoist should not approach it.
由于天机大比在今年举行，天机阁又重新变得热闹了起来。只见一道遁光从天机阁主阁内疾驰而出，向你飞来。¤Due to the Tianji Competition being held this year, the Heavens Secrets Pavilion has become lively again. Suddenly, a streak of escaping light rushes out from the main pavilion of the Heavenly Machine and flies towards you.
供奉¤Guest elder 
只见一道遁光从天机阁主阁内疾驰而出，向你飞来，你能明显感受到此人境界之不俗。¤Only saw a beam of escape light rushing out from the main pavilion of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion and flying towards you. You can clearly feel the extraordinary realm of this person.
即便是放眼整个宁州，元婴期修士也是屈指可数的存在，天机阁自然不会不知道。¤Even in the entire Ningzhou, the number of Nascent Soul cultivators is rare, and the Heavens Secrets Pavilion naturally knows.
无妨，道友若改变主意了，可自行前往报名处安排座次，在下便不叨扰了。¤No problem, fellow daoist. If you change your mind, you can arrange your own seating at the registration office. I won't bother you anymore.
这边请吧。¤Please come this way.
而今日的天机阁，却是人声鼎沸，热闹非凡。¤Today, the Heavens Secrets Pavilion is bustling with crowds and excitement.
既然如此，在下就不叨扰了。二位若对大比有兴趣，前往接引阁安排座次便是。¤Since that is the case, I will not trouble you any further. If you are interested in the competition, please go to the Access Pavilion to arrange your seats.
不过你既然已是化神修为，早已了却了凡性，这三千繁华，你自然是毫不关心。¤However, since you have already undergone deity transformation and transcended mortality, you naturally have no interest in these worldly affairs of the three thousand realms.
你对状况尚未完全了解，倪旭欣便拉着你一路走到了接引阁。¤Without an understanding of the situation, Ni Xuxin pulls you all the way to Access Pavilion.
这是自然，我们走吧。¤Let's go, this is nature.
拍卖会每十年举行一次，每届都会有不同的奇珍异宝出现，引得大量金丹期以上修士前来参加。¤The auction is held once every ten years, and each session will have different rare treasures appearing, attracting a large number of cultivators of Golden Core stage and above to participate.
呵呵，任何修士但凡能结丹成功，天机阁都不会收不到消息。¤Hehe, the Heavenly Machine pavilion will never fail to receive news of any cultivator who successfully forms their core.
我只是刚好游历至此，随便逛逛而已，就不劳道友费心了。¤I just happened to travel here and am just casually wandering around, so there's no need for my fellow daoist to trouble themselves on my behalf.
正是…敢问阁下是？¤It is...may I ask who you are?
想必阁主是想多些时间准备渡劫之事吧。¤I suppose the sect leader wants more time to prepare for the tribulation.
在下的确是第一次来此。¤I'm really here for the first time.
呵呵呵，道友年纪轻轻便已结丹成功，天机阁若想不知道反倒是难事。¤Hehehe, fellow daoist has already successfully condensed the core at a young age. It is difficult for the Heavenly Machine Pavilion to not know.
你从天上御剑飞过，俯瞰着这一切，心里却毫无波澜。¤You flew over on a sword from the heavens, overlooking everything with a calm heart.
我自己随便逛逛就好了。¤I'll just wander around on my own.
刚落脚，你便听到一个熟悉的声音在不远处响起。¤As soon as you settled down, you heard a familiar voice sound not far away.
这机缘究竟为何物？¤What exactly is this opportunity?
这个，等道友夺得魁首时，自然便会知晓。¤This, fellow daoist, will naturally be known when you become the first place winner.
只见一道遁光从天机阁主阁内疾驰而出，向你飞来。¤Only saw a fleeing light coming towards you from the main pavilion of the Heavenly Machine Pavilion.
{FirstName}道友，想不到这一次相见，在下倒要叫你一声前辈了。¤{FirstName} fellow daoist, I never expected to see you again. I must address you as senior this time.
在下虽已拜访过此处，但对天机大比还未有太多了解。¤Although I have visited this place before, I still don't have much knowledge about the Tianji Competition.
每届大比也都会有成千上万的炼气、筑基修士前来观赛，以求在高手对战时能启发思绪。¤In each Grand Competition, there are also thousands of Qi Refining and Foundation Building cultivators who come to watch the battles, hoping to gain inspiration from watching the experts fight.
突破化神后，不管寿元如何，都只有千年时间准备迎接天劫了。¤After the breakthrough deity transformation, regardless of lifespan, there is only a thousand years of time to prepare for the celestial tribulation.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}！我就知道你会来！¤{FirstName} brother! I knew you would come!
而大比给出的机缘，便与此有关。¤And the opportunity provided by the Grand Competition is related to this.
阁主那若隐若现的笑再次一闪而过。¤The pavilion master's elusive smile flashed once again.
在下正有此意。¤I'm interested.
那在下便为道友简要介绍一二吧。¤Then let me give a brief introduction to my fellow daoist here.
在下是天机阁执事，方才观道友独自站在原地，想来是遇到了些麻烦，特地前来指引一二。¤I am the deacon of the Heaven's Secrets Pavilion, just now I saw a fellow daoist standing alone in one place, I believe they encountered some trouble and I came to guide them.
岂止是知道，前辈名讳，在下已是久仰了。¤Not only do I know your name, senior, I've long admired you.
呵呵，此事不说也罢。只是不知阁下今日来此所为何事？¤Hehe, it's better not to mention this matter. I just don't know why the honorable guest came here today?
从大门外的旅店至接引阁前的空地，都布满了三五成群的散修，或是统一穿着宗门道袍、成群结队的弟子们。天上也偶有遁光闪过，引得众人侧目。¤From the inn outside the main entrance to the open space in front of the Access Pavilion, it is filled with groups of individual cultivators or disciples dressed in clan Daoist robes and walking in groups. Occasionally, streaks of light can be seen in the sky, drawing the attention of onlookers.
竟连各大掌门都来参赛？¤Even the masters of all the major sects have come to participate in the competition?
天机阁坐落于群山之间，平日里少有人烟。只有每隔十年举办一次的拍卖大会，才得以吸引一批高阶修士来到此地。¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion sits nestled amongst the mountains, with few visitors on normal days. Only during the auction held every decade does it draw a batch of high-level cultivators to this place.
正是…阁下知道我？¤Is it...that you know me, sir?
呵呵，像道友这么杰出的人才，与倪家少主相识倒也在情理之中。二位，且随我来罢。¤Hehe, it is reasonable for someone as outstanding as a fellow daoist to know the ni family young master. Let's follow me for now, the two of you.
接引执事¤Jie Yin Zhi Shi
此前都没有机会前来观战，今日倒想来看看。¤Before this, I never had the opportunity to come and watch, but today I want to come and take a look.
此事，你们自行安排便是。¤This matter, you can arrange it yourselves.
承蒙阁主的机缘，有幸突破到化神罢了。阁主只需像以前那般称呼便可。¤Thanks to the opportunity provided by the sect leader, I have fortunately broken through to deity transformation. The sect leader can address me as before.
不远处，一阵熟悉的声音传来，打断了那位执事的话。¤Not far away, a familiar voice came interrupting the steward's words.
前辈今日能前来观战，顿使我阁蓬荜生辉。只是不知前辈欲在何处观战？¤Senior, being able to come and watch today makes our sect shine. I just don't know where you want to watch from?
说罢，他便飞至前方为你引路。你虽然心生疑惑，但还是跟着他一路飞到了接引阁前。¤After speaking, he flew ahead to lead the way for you. Although you had doubts in your heart, you still followed him all the way to the Access Pavilion.
{FirstName}前辈，幸会。在下天机阁阁主范杰。¤Senior {FirstName}, nice to meet you. I am the secrets pavilion master of the heavens secrets pavilion, Fan Jie.
阁下过谦了，能突破到化神之人根本寥寥无几。在下便止步于瓶颈不知多少年了。¤My dear sir, you are too modest. There are very few people who can breakthrough to deity transformation. I myself have been stuck at a bottleneck for many years.
{FirstName}道友，此次前来可是为了参加天机大比？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, have you come here to participate in the Tianji Competition?
那在下便先行告退了。¤Then I shall take my leave.
那便好说了。¤That's easy to say.
非也，纵然位至掌门，号令一方修士的存在，若无法突破化神，恐怕也只能沦为笑柄而已。¤Nonya, even if one reaches the position of master and commands cultivators from all directions, if unable to breakthrough the deity transformation, they may be reduced to a laughing stock.
天机阁还是往年的景象，但此时的你却不可同日而语。¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion remains as it was in previous years, but you cannot compare it to how it was in the past.
各路金丹、元婴高手都会前来参赛，甚至贵为五大派的掌门也不例外。¤Experts of various golden cores and nascent souls will come to participate in the competition, even the leaders of the five major factions.
你转头望去，只见倪旭欣高呼着向你跑来。¤You turned your head and saw Ni Xuxin shouting and running towards you.
幸会…道友知道我？¤Nice to meet you...fellow daoist, do you know me?
只见地面上布满了三五成群的散修，或是统一穿着宗门道袍、成群结队的弟子们。偶有遁光闪过，引得众人侧目。¤I saw wandering cultivators gathering in groups on the ground, or disciples dressed in the clan's Dao robes and grouped together. Occasionally, a fleeing light would pass by, attracting the attention of the crowd.
敢问道友可是第一次来天机阁？¤May I ask fellow daoist if it is your first time coming to the heavens secrets pavilion?
无妨，若道友之后想参加天机大比，到接引阁报名即可。¤No problem, if fellow daoist wants to participate in the Tianji Competition later, just register at the Access Pavilion.
天机阁内分为拍卖会、天衍阁、接引阁与主阁。¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion is divided into an auction hall, Heavenly Derivative Pavilion, Access Pavilion, and Main Pavilion.
前辈放心，我阁自会安排妥当，前辈明日只管前来观战便是。¤Senior, please rest assured that our faction will arrange everything properly. Senior can just come and watch the battle tomorrow.
好，道友这边请。¤Okay, fellow daoist please come this way.
只见一道遁光从天机阁主阁内疾驰而出，向你飞来。你能明显感受到此人境界之不俗。¤I saw a streak of escape light swiftly flying towards you from the main pavilion of the Heaven's Secrets Pavilion. You could sense clearly that this person's level was outstanding.
座次？¤Seat order?
从大门外的旅店至接引阁前的空地，都布满了三五成群的散修，或是统一穿着宗门道袍、成群结队的弟子们。天上也常有高阶修士飞过，引得众人侧目。¤From the inn outside the main gate to the open space in front of the Access Pavilion, there are wandering cultivators in groups of three to five, or disciples in uniform sect robes gathered in groups. Often, high-level cultivators flying in the sky attract the attention of the people below.
承蒙阁主的照顾，侥幸突破到化神罢了。阁主只需像以前那般称呼便可。¤Thanks to the care of the pavilion master, I was luckily able to break through to deity transformation. The pavilion master only needs to address me as before.
倪少¤Ni Shao
道友这边请。¤Fellow daoist, please come this way.
此时前来，自然是想借大比观摩一二。¤At this moment, I came here naturally to observe the competition.
没错。道友以为，对五大派掌门这等大能来说最重要的是什么？¤Correct. Fellow Daoist, what do you think is the most important thing for the leaders of the Five Great Sects?
莫非…是与宗门有关？¤Could it be...related to the clan?
阁下今日能前来观战，我阁必是夹道欢迎。此事我阁自会安排妥当，阁下明日只管前来观战便是。¤Your presence today is greatly appreciated, and my pavilion will greet you on both sides. We will make the necessary arrangements for this matter, and I welcome you to come and watch the battle tomorrow.
阁下过谦了，就算有此机缘，能突破到化神之人也是寥寥无几。在下便止步于瓶颈不知多少年了。¤You are too humble, even if one has such an opportunity, there are very few who can breakthrough to deity transformation. As for me, I have been stuck at a bottleneck for many years.
而这接引阁便是天机大比安排座次之所在了。¤And this Access Pavilion is where the seating arrangement for the Tianji Competition is made.
这{color=#d0380a}天机大比{/color}，乃是每百年才有一次、全宁州规模最大的赛事。¤This {color=#d0380a}Tianji Competition{/color} is the largest event in Ningzhou, held only once every hundred years.
一段柔和的青年音将你从思绪中拉了出来，只见身旁一位穿着天机阁服饰的修士正微笑地看着你。¤A soft young voice pulled you out of your thoughts. You saw a cultivator dressed in the costume of the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion smiling at you.
的确有此打算，不过在下却想先四处逛逛。¤I do have this plan, but I want to wander around first.
一时间，你被这纷繁的景象所吸引，竟是愣在了原地。¤For a moment, you were mesmerized by the bustling scene and remained motionless in place.
莫非…是与化神有关？¤Could it be related to deity transformation? 
不错，纵然位至掌门，修仙界登峰造极般的存在，若无法突破化神，终究也只会化为尘土而已。¤Good, even if one is the highest-ranking master in the world of cultivators and has reached the pinnacle of cultivation, without a breakthrough in deity transformation, one will ultimately only become dust.
道友先凑齐十万灵石，去接引阁处报名即可。¤Fellow daoist, first gather 100,000 spirit stones and register at the Access Pavilion.
只是不知，前辈此次前来所为何事？¤Just I do not know what brings the senior here this time?
道友这边请吧。¤Fellow daoist, please come this way.
原来是{FirstName}道友，想必也是来参加这天机大比？¤So it turns out that you are {FirstName}, fellow daoist. I presume you are here to participate in the Tianji Competition?
转头望去，只见倪旭欣高呼着向你跑来。¤I turned my head and saw Ni Xuxin running towards me, shouting.
倪兄…¤Ni Xiong...
只见他略显深意地笑了笑。¤I only saw him smile with a slight hint of meaning.
敢问道友，可是来参加这天机大比？¤May I ask fellow daoist if you have come to participate in this Tianji competition?
所以他们才能放下身份，只为来寻觅这一丝化神的希望。¤Therefore, they were able to put down their identity and only come to search for this thread of deity transformation's hope.
天衍阁主要负责情报收集与交易，道友若想寻得某物，都可以委托天衍阁收集相关情报。¤The Heavenly Derivative Pavilion is mainly responsible for intelligence gathering and trades. Fellow Daoists may entrust the Heavenly Derivative Pavilion to gather relevant intelligence if they wish to obtain something.
若道友真想知道其中玄机，大可以先观摩一番，不知道友意下如何？¤If Fellow Daoist really wants to know the mystery behind it, you may observe it first, how about it?
天机大比马上就要开始了，天机阁又重新变得热闹了起来。¤The Tianji Competition is about to start, and the Heavens Secrets Pavilion has become lively once again.
啧，天星城的林公子，上次英杰会名动武陵城的翘楚。凭着神识功法击败了所有男性，又靠相貌倾倒了所有女性……唉，败得透彻。¤Tsk, Lin Gongzi of Starsky City, last time made a name for himself in the Young Hero's Tournament in Wuling City. He defeated all the men using his Soul Sense technique, and also charmed all the women with his appearance... sigh, he was thoroughly defeated.
英杰会五年一次，据说是由宁州四族中的倪家操持，连仙家宗派都会派人观礼。这对我们这些小辈而言可是出人头地的好机会，可也是最惨烈的决斗场……¤The Young Hero's Tournament is held once every five years, reportedly organized by the Ni family of the four clans of Ningzhou. Even the immortal realms' sects will send representatives to observe. For us young generation, it's a great opportunity to make a name for ourselves, but also the most brutal arena for battles...
等我领悟这“八极崩”，便要去武陵城的英杰会上闯一闯。上次吃了那林家公子的亏，这次的筑基丹一定是我的！¤When I comprehend the Eight Extremes Collapse, I will challenge the Young Hero's Tournament in Wuling City. I was defeated by the young master of the Lin family last time, but I will surely obtain the Foundation Pill this time!
困在炼气期的千千万万，真正筑基的却少之又少，就难在突破这一关上。筑基丹能减少突破难度，而拔得英杰会头筹者便奖一颗如此珍贵的仙丹，明白竞争的激烈吧？¤Millions of people are stuck in the qi refining stage, while very few have truly achieved foundation building. The difficulty lies in breaking through this stage. Foundation pills can reduce the difficulty of breakthroughs. And the winner of the young hero's tournament will receive such a valuable elixir as a reward, showing how fierce the competition is.
不过炼制六品灵舟可能需要花费我数月时间，待我炼制完成后，会将灵舟用传音符寄回给你。¤However, crafting a sixth grade spirit boat may take me several months of time. Once I have finished crafting it, I will send the spirit boat to you using a sound talisman.
炼制六品灵舟需要花费我数月时间，待我炼制完成后，会将灵舟用传音符寄回给你。¤To refine a sixth grade spirit boat, it will take me several months of time. Once I have finished refining it, I will send the spirit boat back to you using a sound talisman.
不错，这种材料的确可以用来炼制六品灵舟。¤Not bad, this type of material can indeed be used to refine a sixth grade spirit boat.
{FirstName}道友可是找到了能用来炼制灵舟的{color=#d0380a}六品木属性材料{/color}？¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, have you found the sixth-grade wood-attribute materials that can be used to refine the spirit boat?
我还是去白帝楼汇报一下吧。¤I'll go report to the White Emperor Pavilion.
你筑基在即，这筑基丹你就收下吧。¤You are about to begin foundation building, so you should accept this foundation pill.
我击杀偷袭于我的魔门败类，何罪之有？况且待我毁尸灭迹，谁又知道这里发生过什么，又如何咬定是我杀人？¤I killed the sneak attacker from the demonic sect who targeted me, what crime did I commit? Moreover, after destroying the evidence, who would know what happened here? How could they accuse me of murder?
我看到的不多，不过你魔门的手段我倒是没错过。同门一场，你束手就擒吧。¤I haven't seen much, but I haven't missed your demon sect's methods. We're from the same sect, so just surrender.
多谢师兄救命之恩。¤Thank you, senior brother, for saving my life.
你杀了我，定会有人追查到你的。¤If you kill me, someone will definitely track you down.
墨师弟，一念之差沦落此地，实是难看至极。¤Junior Ink, due to a momentary lapse in judgment, has fallen to this place and looks incredibly unsightly.
唉......机关算尽反误性命，我跟你走吧。¤Sigh... despite all calculations, it was still a deadly mistake. I'll follow you.
{shidi}心性纯善，却颇显冲动。墨居仁虽然阳寿亏空，实力也不容小觑。望{shidi}日后勿要鲁莽如斯。¤{shidi}'s mind is pure and benevolent, but also shows some impulsiveness. Although Mo Juren's lifespan is limited, his strength should not be underestimated. I hope {shidi} will not be so reckless in the future.
明明是你这叛徒投靠魔道偷袭于我，现在还想扭曲黑白。¤Clearly, you, the traitor who defected to the demonic path, sneak attacked me, yet now you want to twist right and wrong.
炎萧......？你何时到的？¤Yan Xiao...? When did you arrive?
炎萧只是淡淡的看着墨居仁，眼中尽是冷意¤Yan Xiao just looked faintly at Mo Juren, his eyes filled with coldness.
师兄教诲，晚辈定铭记在心。¤Senior brother's teachings, I will always remember in my heart.
......炎萧，你何时到的。¤... Yan Xiao, when did you arrive?
师兄还是放弃抵抗，随我去见宗门长老吧。¤Senior brother, give up resistance and come with me to see the clan elder.
事关重大，你切莫声张打草惊蛇，不过门派的奖励可少不了你的。¤It is of great importance, so you must not make a fuss and startle the snake. However, the reward from the sect definitely won't be lacking for you.
这些丹药你且拿去疗伤。¤Take these pills and use them to heal your injuries.
“惨了，先拖拖时间，再想办法喊来驻守此地的金丹长老。”¤Trouble! We need to stall for time and then figure out a way to call for the elder with a Golden Core who is stationed here.
事关重大，你切莫声张打草惊蛇。¤It is of great importance, you must not make a sound and startle the snake in the grass.
沿着丹香寻去，只见一尊三足六面的大鼎悬在蓝色地火之上，大鼎上方环绕着七彩云雾，四周还布满了晦涩的阵法。¤Following the scent of Dan fragrance, only to see a large tripod with three legs and six faces hanging above the blue earthfire. Above the large tripod, there are seven-colored clouds and mist swirling around, and there are also cryptic arrays all around.
但区区一颗丹药，怎可能如愿？你一把便将那丹药吸入掌中，细细端详了起来。¤But how can such a mere pill fulfill your wish? You grasp it and carefully examine it in your palm.
“这难道便是传说中的化劫丹？不愧是六品丹药，竟然都初具灵格了。”¤Could this be the legendary Tribulation Pill? Truly deserving of its sixth grade pill classification, it has already formed its spiritual pattern.
“这丹房真当是声势浩大，也不知道丹炉里藏着什么宝贝。”¤This dan room is truly magnificent, I don't know what treasures are hidden inside the alchemy furnace.
白狐¤White fox
一股浓郁的丹香飘来。¤A strong scent of medicinal herbs wafted over.
你隔空将炉盖打开，一颗浑圆的七彩丹药夺目而出，大有想要逃走的架势。¤You opened the lid of the furnace from a distance, a dazzling round rainbow pill popped out, and there was a strong urge to escape.
你又搜寻了一通，但所见都是些寻常丹药，对你已经全然无用。¤You searched again, but all you saw were some common elixirs, which were of no use to you at all.
普通的丹药都卖这么贵，太黑了吧！¤Ordinary elixirs are so expensive, it's too much!
嫌贵啊？药到用时方恨少，一颗救你一条命！¤Is it too expensive? You will regret not buying it when you need it. One pill can save your life!
二位最近刚刚出关吧，这位也算是个名人了，以伪灵根之身通过擂台加入宗门。¤Both of you have recently exited seclusion, right? This person is also considered a celebrity, having joined the clan through the arena with a mixed spirit root body.
看开始了。¤Let's get started.
这是哪位师兄，未有耳闻啊，竟能战胜端木师兄。¤Who is this senior brother? I have never heard of him before, to be able to overcome Senior Brother Duanmu.
请{FirstName}\r{LastName}上台比试！¤Please {FirstName}\r{LastName} come up to the stage for a competition!
对啊，虽然与林师姐相比略逊一筹，但也是成名已久的外门弟子，传闻端木师兄为了这次大比刻意压制了修为。¤Yes, although she is slightly inferior to Senior Sister Lin, she is also a well-known Outer Disciple. Rumours say that Senior Brother Duanmu intentionally suppressed his cultivation for this grand competition.
你干净利落地赢下了第一轮比试的胜利，只要再赢一场，就能拿到所有炼气期修士梦寐以求的筑基丹了。¤You cleanly and decisively won the victory in the first round of the competition. As long as you win one more round, you will be able to obtain the coveted foundation pill that all qi refining cultivators dream of.
那倒是厉害了，上一次做到的应该是几百年前的事了吧。¤That's impressive. It should have been several hundred years ago since it was last done.
怪不得，此人出手之凌厉，连端木师兄都败下阵来。¤No wonder, this person's attack is so sharp that even Senior Brother Duanmu was unable to withstand it.
唉，看来我还是太过急躁了，现在的我难以再大比中取得好成绩。¤Ah, it seems that I am still too impatient. It is difficult for me to achieve good results compared to others now.
{FirstName}\r{LastName}对阵温杰！¤{FirstName}\r{LastName} versus Wen Jie!
请指教。¤Please advise me.
他对上“竹剑”温杰了，我竹山宗少有的剑修一脉的传人啊。¤He faced Bamboo Sword Wen Jie, a rare disciple of the Bamboo Mountain Sect's sword cultivation lineage.
背后传来一名男子的声音，你转头望去，正是上次那个被称作大长老的男人。¤From behind, a man's voice came over, you turned your head to look, and it was the man called Grand Elder last time.
这与我无关。话已带到，你若不愿去，也随你。¤This has nothing to do with me. The words are spoken, if you don't want to go, it's up to you.
离火门的这件悬赏应该早就完成了，为何过了那么久才回来？¤The bounty from the Fire Gate Sect should have been completed a long time ago, why did it take so long to come back?
最近没有发现{$TmpStrValue}的下落...这些事不必特意来问我，直接用传音符联系密探即可。¤Recently, there has been no discovery of {$TmpStrValue} whereabouts... You don't need to ask me about these things specifically, just use sound talismans to contact the spies.
有些实力，能完成这个悬赏，你很不错...¤Some strength, to complete this reward, you are very impressive...
还有什么问题？¤Is there any other question?
那就好。收下吧，这些是你的赏金。¤That's good. Accept it, this is your reward.
要领悬赏的话，自己看吧。¤If you want to know the reward, look for it yourself.
她抬头看了你一眼，似乎有些惊讶。¤She looked up at you and seemed somewhat surprised.
另外...凭你在风雨楼内完成的悬赏，已经足以晋升为天字杀手。¤In addition...with the bounties you've completed in Storm Manor, you're already qualified to become a Heaven Rank Assassin.
琚运琦作为上一任风雨楼大长老，对我们的情报系统极为熟悉，所以我恐怕很难提供给你有效的信息。¤As the previous grand elder of Storm Manor, Ju Yunqi is very familiar with our intelligence systems, so I am afraid it will be difficult for me to provide you with effective information.
玄女，他叫什么名字？¤Mysterious girl, what is her name?
收下吧，这些是你的赏金。¤Take it, this is your bounty.
不过据我猜测，他继续留在宁州的可能性极低，反倒可能已经逃往海外的碎星岛，或是南崖城一带。¤However, according to my speculation, the possibility of him staying in Ningzhou is very low. Instead, he may have already fled to the overseas Shattered Star Island or the South Cliff City area.
大长老...有特殊的悬赏任务要交予你，他在密室等你。¤The grand elder... has special reward quests to give to you, he is waiting for you in the secret chamber.
{$daihao}...很好，我记住这个名字了。¤{$daihao}...Very well, I'll remember this name.
玄女叫住了你，不知为何，你觉得今日的她似乎与平时有些不一样...¤Mysterious girl stopped you. For some reason, you feel that she is different from usual today...
{$daihao}...这些是你的赏金。¤{$daihao}... Here's your reward money.
只是发生了一些意外，现在都已经摆平了。¤Just some accidents happened, but they have all been resolved now.
最近一次发现{$TmpStrValue}的踪迹是在{$place}..这些事不必特意来问我，直接用传音符联系密探即可。¤The last time {$TmpStrValue} was detected was in {$place}. You don't need to ask me about these things, just use sound talisman to contact the spy.
说完，他便转身离去了。¤After finishing speaking, he turned around and left.
大长老已经在密室恭候多时了，他应该有些事要与你说。¤Grand Elder has been waiting for you in the secret chamber for quite some time now. He must have something to discuss with you.
这位客官想要看些什么，要不要小的帮忙介绍一下？本店的东西绝对会让所有客人满意而归！¤What would this guest like to see? Would you like me to help introduce something? The items in our store will definitely satisfy all customers!
托你收集的草药你可带来了？¤Did you bring the herbs that I asked you to collect?
我们中草阁愿意以{$jiangli}的价格收购这批草药。¤Our Chinese Herb Pavilion is willing to purchase this batch of herbs at the price of {$jiangli}.
这件事就交给我吧。¤Let me take care of this.
客官，您...您这边请。¤Sir, please come this way.
可惜，可惜....¤Unfortunately, unfortunately...
我是要购置一些宝物，不过我只要你们这儿最好的东西，那些次品就不要拿出来给我看了！¤I am here to purchase some treasures, but I only want the best from you. Don't bother showing me any inferior products!
很好。¤Very good.
客官，您说笑了，我们这里卖的可都是上品，您看看便知。¤Sir, you're joking. Everything we sell here is top-quality. Take a look for yourself.
眼下我们的库存的确略有不足，特别是{$taskdesc}¤Currently, our inventory is slightly insufficient, especially for {$taskdesc}.
我们近日货存充足，没有什么需要补充的草药。¤We have sufficient inventory of herbs recently, there is nothing to supplement.
你一边说着，一边将自己的灵力外放，那管事感受到你的气势，知道自己遇到的是一位大主顾，脸上的笑容也越发真切了。¤As you spoke, you radiated your spiritual power. The steward felt your imposing presence and knew that he had encountered a valuable customer. His smile grew more genuine.
我现在没有时间收集这些。¤I don't have time to collect these now.
你一边说着，一边挥手将自己的灵石展示给他看，那管事知道自己遇到的是一位大主顾，脸上的笑容也越发真切了。¤You showed him your spirit stones while speaking, and the steward knew that he had encountered a major customer, so the smile on his face became more genuine.
不错，不错，这些灵石是给你的报酬。¤Not bad, not bad. These spirit stones are your reward.
臭{xiaozi}，我能记得什么？¤Stinky brat, what can I even remember?
呼~~老头，你知道她什么路数吗？¤Hey old man~~, do you know what her trick is?
不过这路数，必是魔门无疑。还出现在武陵城内，你还是回报白帝楼为好。¤However, this path undoubtedly belongs to the demonic sect. Since it appeared within Wuling City, it's better to report to White Emperor Pavilion.
好...好身手...多谢小友手下留情了。¤Okay... very skillful... thank you young friend for sparing my life.
不过，这运气之法看似平常，与五行剑法相匹配居然如此精妙...果然是前代能人才有的手笔...没想到我修炼一生的竹山剑法，竟有这样的渊源...真是令人感叹哪。¤However, this luck technique appears ordinary, but matched with the five elements sword skill, it is surprisingly exquisite... It is truly a masterpiece only possessed by experts of previous generations... I never expected that there would be such a connection with my cultivation of the bamboo mountain sword skill throughout my life... It is truly admirable.
{$TmpTalkString}，这个我还没什么头绪，你还是问问旁人吧。¤{$TmpTalkString}, I still don't have any clue about it. You should ask someone else.
这竹山剑法和离火剑法，均是罕有人用，相对门内其他地阶神通，甚是鸡肋，早已无人问津。¤This Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill and Fireless Sword Skill are both rarely used, compared to other Earth-tier avatars in the sect, they are quite useless and have long been abandoned.
可现在当我运转此功法之后，再运转竹山剑法和离火剑法，却有大不相同之感，莫非是有什么关联？道友若有头绪，记得与我分享一二。¤But now, when I use this technique, and then use the Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill and the Fireless Sword Skill, I feel a great difference. Is there some sort of relationship between them? If you have any clues, fellow daoist, remember to share them with me.
不过后来行走天下，我特地请教了离火剑法，希望从五行生克中提升剑法的威力，但效果并不理想。再加上灵根和火道的原因，我也未能完全掌握。¤However, later when I walked the world, I specifically asked to learn the Fireless Sword Skill, hoping to enhance the power of my sword through the Five Elements’ mutual generation and restriction. However, the effect was not ideal. Coupled with the reasons of my Spiritual Root and Fire Dao, I was not able to fully grasp it.
温杰不断地比划着各种剑招，十分投入的样子，你看他终于要歇下来了，赶紧上前攀谈。¤Wen Jie kept demonstrating various sword techniques with great enthusiasm. When you saw that he was finally going to take a break, you quickly approached him to chat.
你问我有什么收获？这个么，谈不上收获，只能说叫猜想。¤You ask me what I have gained? Well, it's not so much of a gain, but rather a speculation.
可当我运转竹山剑法和离火剑法之时，此功法竟有了许多妙用，我猜莫非是有什么关联？¤But when I use the Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill and the Fireless Sword Skill, this technique unexpectedly has many uses. I wonder if there is some connection?
还是别打扰他了，不过他刚才说的，运功后竹山剑法和离火剑法搭配使用会有特殊反应，倒是有趣。可以找竹山和离火的剑修请教一下。¤It's better not to disturb him, but what he just said was interesting. There will be a special reaction when using bamboo mountain sword skill and the fireless sword skill after practicing. You can learn from sword practitioners who specialize in these skills.
我竹山剑法大成之后，便感觉此剑法与竹山诸法门有格格不入之感，不像是竹山宗土生土长的功法，其中颇有几分金鸿剑派古技的韵味。¤After I achieved mastery in the Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill, I felt that this technique did not fully fit with the various techniques of the Bamboo Mountain Sect. It did not seem like a technique born and bred of the earth, but rather had a taste of the ancient techniques of the Sub-Golden Hong Sword Sect.
温杰不断地比划着各种剑招，全身心投入，显然正在专心领悟。¤Wen Jie continuously gestured various sword techniques, fully immersed and clearly focused on enlightenment.
{$TmpTalkString}你来啦，经文一定也看过了吧，真是玄妙非常。¤{$TmpTalkString} You're here, have you also read the scripture? It's truly mysterious and extraordinary.
有意思，竹山剑法、离火剑法...你可得好好记下这点，我想说不定是解谜的关键。¤Interesting, Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill, Fireless Sword Skill...you must remember this well, it could potentially be the key to solving the mystery.
温杰不断地比划着各种剑招，十分投入的样子，不过一看到你来了，立马停下来向你打招呼。¤Wen Jie continually gestured with various sword techniques, completely engrossed. However, as soon as he saw you, he immediately stopped and greeted you.
可我看你在这里已经领悟了好久了。¤But I can see that you have been enlightened here for a long time.
惭愧，我竹山宗本就不善剑法，只是我个人爱剑罢了。领悟起来肯定不如那边的各大剑派的弟子们。¤Sorry, as a member of the Bamboo Mountain Sect, I am not skilled in sword techniques. I only personally appreciate swords. My understanding and enlightenment in this area is definitely not comparable to the disciples of the major sword sects over there.
{$TmpTalkString}能够传承五行剑诀之道统，真是令在下佩服！有机会一定要好好论一论道！¤{$TmpTalkString} has the ability to inherit the way of the 5 elements sword art, which truly impresses me! We must definitely have a debate when the opportunity arises!
我深感此法与竹山法门惯用法门不符，后来行走天下，特地请教了离火剑法，希望从五行生克中提升剑法的威力，结果自然是并不理想。再加上灵根和火道的原因，也未能完全掌握。¤I deeply feel that this method does not conform to the usual methods used in the Zhushan School. Later, when I traveled throughout the world, I specifically asked to learn the Fireless Sword Skill, hoping to enhance the power of my sword through the interactions of the Five Elements. However, the results were not ideal, and due to my spiritual root and the path of fire, I was unable to completely master it.
下面开始本届英杰会决赛的比试，公孙公子，请上台。¤Next, the final competition of the young hero's tournament will begin. Gongsun young master, please come to the stage.
道友去{color=#d0380a}逸风城宝器轩{/color}看看吧，那边法器不少，可以去挑几件趁手的。¤Fellow daoist, go to Yifeng City Treasure Weapon Hall and take a look. There are many magic tools there, you can pick a few that suit you.
道友可知，修士们大都同时运转一门主修功法和数门辅修功法？因为只有这样才能发挥最大的战斗能力。¤Fellow daoists may know that most cultivators simultaneously cultivate one main technique and several auxiliary techniques, in order to fully unleash their combat abilities.
才三回合不到，壮汉便贴身直入，一拳把对手击飞了出去，那名修士\r在地上挣扎了几下，便不省人事，而那壮汉甚至连灵力护罩都没破损。¤In less than three rounds, the burly man rushed in and punched his opponent flying. The cultivator struggled on the ground for a few moments before losing consciousness. The burly man didn't even break the spiritual shield.
那修士狼狈地站稳，羞愧地讪笑着，深施一礼，灰头土脸地离场了。伴随着观众\r的狂欢声与喝彩声，升仙台管事恭敬地将筑基丹奉上。¤The cultivator stood awkwardly, blushing and laughing awkwardly, deeply bowing and leaving with a dust-covered face. Accompanied by the cheers and applause of the audience, the steward of the ascension terrace respectfully presented the foundation pill.
在众人兴奋的呐喊声中，最后一场很快就到了...¤Amidst the excited cheers of the crowd, the final battle arrived quickly...
一阵香风飘过，只见一名清秀少女轻轻落在台上，一双明眸好奇地打\r\n量着对手。¤A fragrant breeze wafted through as a graceful young lady gently landed on the stage, her curious eyes observing her opponent.
说着百里奇翻身一跃下台，眨眼之间便到数丈之外，施展几下遁术便\r\n远远不见了。¤Speaking, Baili Qi flipped over and leaped off the stage, and in the blink of an eye he was several Zhang away, using mobility several times to disappear far away.
阵修，有意思...你得设法结交一二，以后说不定有什么用处。¤Zhen Xiu, interesting...you should try to make some friends, they might be useful in the future.
终于，凌厉的剑气将对面的护盾击个粉碎，对面避无可避，只得认输。\r倪旭欣点到为止，瞬间将全部剑气散去。¤Finally, the fierce sword qi shattered the opponent's shield, leaving them with no choice but to admit defeat. Ni Xuxin stopped there and instantly dissipated all the sword qi.
林沐心在观众的称赞声中，深施一礼，在林家家仆的护送下飘然离去。¤Lin Muxin deeply bowed amidst the audience's praise and left gracefully under the protection of the Lin family's servants.
攻守同样重要，道友战斗时若能身着护具，想必能增添不少胜算。¤Offense and defense are equally important. Fellow daoist, if you can wear armor during combat, it will surely increase your chances of victory.
是啊，不过之前听说林家二小姐活泼贪玩，没想到竟有如此战力？看来以后遇到\r神识强大的修士，可真是要慎之又慎！¤Yeah, but I heard that the second Miss of the Lin family was lively and playful before. I didn't expect her to have such battle power? It seems that in the future, when encountering cultivators with powerful soul sense, one must be extremely cautious!
这位道友，您先请吧！¤Fellow daoist, please go ahead first!
这小鬼，挺有气势，看这体格，应该修炼过什么炼体的秘术...¤This little ghost has quite the aura. Judging from his physique, he should have cultivated some secret arts for body refinement...
会场气氛瞬间安静了一秒，紧接着便爆发出排山倒海般的喝彩声。\r升仙台管事恭恭敬敬地将筑基丹奉上。¤The atmosphere in the venue instantly quieted for one second, then burst into a thunderous cheer. The steward of the Ascension Terrace respectfully presented the Foundation Pill.
有意思..好好准备，有机会去{color=#d0380a}百里府{/color}看看，是你的机缘也说不定。¤Interesting... Prepare well, and if you have the chance to visit the {color=#d0380a}Baili Mansion{/color}, it might be your opportunity.
等等，道友你上台作战，居然只运转一部功法，还只练到一层？¤Wait, fellow daoist, you're going into battle with only one technique and at level 1?
若有哪位道友能战胜我，或是让我百里奇战个痛快，我便愿把这筑基\r丹亲手奉上！在下在广陵城百里府随时欢迎切磋，恭候诸位挑战！¤If any fellow daoist can defeat me, or let me have a good duel, I am willing to present this foundation building pill personally! I am always welcome to duel in Baili Mansion, Guangling City. I await your challenge!
下面开始本届英杰会决赛的比试，请刚刚晋级的倪旭欣选手上台！¤The competition of this year's Young Hero's Tournament finals will now begin. Please welcome to the stage the recently promoted athlete, Ni Xuxin!
英杰会管事定睛观瞧，显得有些惊诧。¤The steward of the Young Hero's Tournament looked intently and appeared somewhat surprised.
去{color=#d0380a}天星城问道楼{/color}逛逛吧，那边的功法神通是物美价廉，好好参悟突破，才能在修仙界有一战之力。¤Go take a stroll at the Heavenly Star City Taoist House, where techniques and divine skills are of great value. Take time to comprehend them and strive for a breakthrough to be able to compete in the world of cultivators.
公孙季向观众们拱了拱手，向管事施了一礼，将筑基丹收入囊中。随后纸扇轻摇，微微一笑，向兴奋的观众们徐徐说道。¤Gongsun Ji bowed to the audience, saluted the steward, and put the Foundation Pill in his pocket. Then he lightly waved his paper fan, gave a slight smile, and slowly spoke to the excited audience.
下面开始本届英杰会决赛的比试，请刚刚晋级的林沐心选手上台！¤The final match of this year's Young Hero's Tournament will now begin. Please welcome the contestant who just advanced, Lin Muxin, to the stage!
对面也是丝毫不和倪旭欣客气，口吐灵气，手掐剑诀，御剑直攻而来。\r两位剑修顿时缠斗在一起，闪转腾挪间，难辨人影，只见剑光。¤On the other side, there was no courtesy towards Ni Xuxin whatsoever. With spiritual energy emanating from their mouth, they formed sword seals with their hands and attacked directly with their swords. The two sword cultivators immediately engaged in a fierce battle, swiftly moving and exchanging blows, making it difficult to distinguish their figures, only the flashes of sword light.
一位豪爽的大汉纵身越上擂台，只见他身长九尺，壮硕至极，站在台\r\n上的气势，好像山岳一般，令人胆寒。¤A bold and hearty man jumped onto the arena. He was nine feet tall and extremely muscular. His presence on the stage was like a mountain, intimidating those around him.
我观道友你战斗时两手空空，行走仙途，怎能没有一器傍身哪？你背上背着一把铁剑，为何不拿来御敌呢？¤I observed that my fellow daoist, you are walking on the immortal path with empty hands and without any weapons. How can you not have any weapon by your side? You are carrying an iron sword on your back, why not use it in combat?
对了，道友是散修吧，不入宗门虽然逍遥，但是在求仙之路上可谓是举步维艰，若要想轻松容易一些，还得去{color=#d0380a}五大宗门{/color}拜拜\r山门，碰碰运气。¤By the way, fellow daoist is a wandering cultivator, although they may live prosperously without joining a clan, it is still extremely difficult on the path to immortality. If they want it to be a little easier, they still have to visit the five major clans and try their luck.
倪道友向着众人兴奋地挥着手，在倪家家仆的簇拥下，潇洒下台而去。¤Daoist Ni excitedly waved his hand towards the crowd and, with the Ni family servants in tow, confidently stepped down from the platform.
姑娘轻盈灵敏，对手投来的各种法术神通，都被她笑嘻嘻地逐\r一化解。而对手则眉头紧锁，牙关紧咬，似乎正奋力抵抗着什么。¤The girl is light and agile, effortlessly dissolving every spell and divine skill thrown at her by her opponent, who appears to be struggling and resisting with a furrowed brow and clenched teeth.
下面开始本届英杰会决赛的比试，请刚刚晋级的百里奇选手上台！¤Now, let's begin the final competition of this year's Young Hero's Tournament. Please welcome to the stage the player who just advanced, Baili Qi!
在下公孙季，我云汐城与公孙家如今正广纳贤才，若有青年才\r俊，随时可来我云汐城之中寻找机缘。¤I am Gongsun Ji, currently my Gongsun family and Yun Shi City are actively recruiting talented individuals. If there are young talents, they can come to Yun Shi City at any time to seek opportunities.
这筑基丹，我其实无意争夺，我只是想与同阶强者切磋罢了。¤I have no intention of competing for this foundation pill, I just want to duel with fellow cultivators of the same level.
不过修为的差距是很难弥补的，希望你能勤奋修炼，提升修为境界，期待修为精进后道友你的表现。¤However, the gap in cultivation is difficult to make up for. I hope you can diligently cultivate and enhance your cultivation realm. I look forward to your performance as a fellow daoist after advancing your cultivation.
白袍公子一收折扇，向对方拱手施礼，举手投足儒雅至极，仙风道骨\r。对面嘿嘿一笑，二话不说便掐诀施法，御器直攻而来。¤The young man in white clothes closed his folding fan, bowed to the other person with a smile, and displayed a refined and elegant demeanor. The opponent chuckled and immediately cast a spell, controlling his flying instrument to attack directly without saying a word.
不必手下留情，放马过来吧！¤No need to hold back, come at me with all you've got!
但听一声娇喝，姑娘明眸闪动间，对手修士掐诀施法的身影霎时一顿，\r眼神空洞茫然，直直向地面倒去，昏迷不醒。¤But with a sweet shout, the girl's bright eyes flickered, and the opposing cultivator's figure using spells suddenly froze. Their eyes were empty and confused as they fell straight to the ground, unconscious.
随着几个落石正中身体，那修士顿时失去平衡，直直向地面坠去，只\r见公孙季轻挥纸扇，用灵力将其托举，轻轻扶到地上。¤With several falling stones hitting his body, the cultivator instantly lost his balance and fell straight to the ground. Only to see Gongsun Ji lightly waving his paper fan and using spiritual energy to lift him up and gently place him on the ground.
对手偷袭不成，反而身陷阵法，躲避不及，不禁冷汗满额，而公孙公子只是淡然地在阵眼位置微笑着，可谓以静制动，以逸待劳。¤The opponent's sneak strike failed, but instead fell into the array and couldn't avoid it. They couldn't help but break out in a cold sweat, while Young Master Gongsun remained calm and smiled faintly at his position in the formation, using stillness as a means of control and waiting for the enemy to exhaust themselves.
只见公孙公子面不改色，纸扇轻摇之间，各种奇妙的阵法便驱动起来，\r环环相扣，生生不息，精妙无穷。¤I saw the expression on young master Gongsun's face remained unchanged as he lightly waved his paper fan, various wonderful arrays were activated, interlocking with each other, constantly restless, and infinitely exquisite.
能够登台直面练气中后期修士，道友实属勇气可嘉。虽为练气初期，\r有这样的心性和勇气，想必将来必有成就。¤Being able to directly face cultivators in the middle and late stages of Qi refining on stage, fellow daoist's courage is admirable. Although in the early stage of Qi refining, having such mentality and courage, it is bound to have achievements in the future.
精通神识流的姑娘，可真是有趣得很哪，别看咯，咱们走吧。¤The girl who is proficient in the flow of soul sense is really interesting, let's go without looking anymore.
这是...倪道友？！¤Is this...Daoist Ni?!
会场的观众们统统高呼过瘾，两位剑修之间的对决，着实是精彩万分，\r升仙台管事恭敬地将筑基丹奉上。¤The audience at the venue shouted out with satisfaction, the duel between the two sword cultivators was truly spectacular, and the steward of the Ascension Terrace respectfully presented the Foundation Pill.
道友既是宗门弟子，平日里可多去宗门内{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}看看，莫要浪费了大好资源。¤Fellow daoist, since you are a member of the clan, you should visit the {color=#d0380a}hidden manual pavilion{/color} of the clan often and not waste the valuable resources available there.
素闻天星城林家二小姐是美貌非常，今日一见果真如此！你看她那双眼睛，\r真是灵动非常！¤I've heard that the second miss of the Lin family in Starsky City is extremely beautiful, and seeing her today confirms it! Just look at her eyes, they are truly very lively!
在下公孙季，初次见面，还请道友赐教。¤I am Gongsun Ji. Nice to meet you. Fellow Daoist, please enlighten me.
只见一俊朗剑修快步上台，爽朗一笑，负剑而立。随后大方地向着对\r面修士抱拳一礼。¤I saw a handsome sword cultivator quickly step onto the stage, give a refreshing smile, and stand holding his sword. He then respectfully bowed to the cultivators across from him.
大汉指着对面的修士，毫不客气地说道。¤The Great Han pointed at the cultivator across from him and bluntly said.
你的实力不错，不过到此为止了，在我手上，你撑不过三个回合。¤Your strength is not bad, but it ends here. In my hands, you won't last three rounds.
等等，道友上台作战，居然只运转一部功法？这样可是要吃大亏的，¤Wait a moment, fellow daoist, you're going into battle with only one technique active? This is going to lead to a major defeat.
英杰会管事向你迎面走来，轻轻拍了拍刚从擂台下来的你。¤The steward of the Young Hero's Tournament walks towards you and gently pats you, who has just come down from the arena.
这小子，被关了这么久，倒确实是有点长进，你也要加油啊，别落在后头太远了。¤This kid, being locked up for so long, has actually made some progress. You also need to work hard and not fall too far behind.
百里奇接过筑基丹，一手将其托举，向着台下的观众朗声说道。¤Baili Qi took the Foundation Pill and held it up with one hand, speaking loudly towards the audience below.
英杰会管事定睛观瞧，若有所思。¤The steward of the Young Hero's Tournament gazes intently, deep in thought.
林沐心莞尔一笑，向着狂欢着的观众们眨了眨眼，一旁恭候多时的升\r仙台管事恭恭敬敬地将筑基丹奉上。¤Lin Muxin smiled and winked at the excited audience, while the steward who had been waiting respectfully on the ascending platform for a long time, handed over the Foundation Pill.
修士战斗皆以修为悟道为根本，功法神通为依仗，法器丹药为助力。\n¤Cultivators rely on their cultivation and enlightenment, techniques and divine skills, and magic tools and pills to enhance their combat abilities.
对面脸色一冷，敷衍地拱手\r一礼，二话不说，便与壮汉缠斗起来。¤The person opposite's face turned cold, made a casual bow with one hand, and without a word, began to fight with the burly man.
学的再多，却只浅尝辄止可不行，道友要踏实修习，好好精进突破。¤No matter how much you study, only scratching the surface won't do. Fellow daoist needs to diligently practice, work hard to make breakthroughs.
嘻嘻，承让啦。¤Hehe, please be kind with your words.
期待道友以后的表现，你在台下好好休息便是，在下先失陪了。¤Looking forward to fellow daoist's future performance, you rest well backstage, this one will take his leave first.
倪道友艺高人胆大，交手之时愈长，剑气反而愈攒愈多，对面从\r开始时凶猛至极的进攻，逐渐转化为狼狈地防守。¤Daoist Ni is a skilled and daring individual. As the fight prolonged, his sword qi became increasingly fierce. The opponent's initial aggressive attack gradually turned into a desperate defense.
你身上功法气息繁杂且不醇厚，道友是都只修炼了一层吧。功法还是得要刻苦突破才行，这是是经年累月之功，马虎不得。¤Your technique has a complicated and impure aura, it seems fellow daoists have only cultivated to level 1. To make progress in your technique, you must work hard to make a breakthrough. This requires years of effort and cannot be done carelessly.
胜败乃兵家常事，道友不必沮丧。¤Victory and defeat are common occurrences in the art of war, fellow daoist need not be disheartened.
这姑娘...炼气期就有这等神识，真是不简单啊，你可要小心了。¤This girl... having such a soul sense in the qi refining stage, she is truly impressive. You must be careful.
如果万事俱备，却还不免失败，这可能是{color=#d0380a}搭配运用{/color}出了问题，可以多多留心，多多思考，必能有所精进。¤If everything is ready, yet failure is still unavoidable, it may be that there is a problem with the {color=#d0380a}combination and application{/color}. Pay more attention and think more, and you will surely make progress.
沸腾的人群突然安静了下来，只见一身着白袍的俊朗公子，手摇折\r扇，缓步走上台来，面带笑意地看着对方。¤The boiling crowd suddenly became quiet as a handsome young man in white robe walked up to the stage, waving his folded fan and looking at the opponent with a smile on his face.
有意思，有机会去{color=#d0380a}云汐城{/color}游历一二，就是不知道这位公孙公子口中的机缘，究竟是什么，所以还是得小心为妙。¤Interesting, if there is a chance, I would like to visit {color=#d0380a}Yun Shi City{/color} for a bit. However, I don't know what kind of opportunity the young master Gongsun mentioned is, so it's better to be cautious.
要感谢的是{$Xing}才对吧。而且，难道{$xing}对我的关心程度远胜于蕊宫仙子和{$Lin}？¤I should thank {$Xing}, right? And, does {$xing}'s level of concern for me far exceed that of Immortal Ruigong and {$Lin}?
虽说你花了些时间破阵，害我看太久鸾儿她们的战斗都觉得无聊了。¤Although you spent some time breaking formation, you made me wait so long that I found the combat of Luaner and the others boring.
虽说你花了些太多时间破阵，害我看太久鸾儿她们的战斗，都开始考虑要不要亲手解决冲虚散人和那古神教的魔修了。¤Although you spent too much time breaking the formation, causing me to watch Luan and the others' combat for too long, I am starting to consider whether or not to personally deal with Hermit Chong Xu and the demon cultivators from the Ancient God sect.
你选择无视星凝最后说的话，而是提出自己更关心的问题。¤You choose to ignore the last words said by Xing Ning, and instead bring up a question that you are more concerned about.
（我早该想到的，她八成是知道我在场后，又憋了一肚子坏水。）¤(I should have realized earlier. She probably knew I was present and kept a bad temper.)
嗯，为何？那若是我不在，蕊宫仙子与{$Lin}此次岂不是都要身死于那绝魂阵中。¤Hmm, why? If I'm not there, then wouldn't the Immortal Ruigong and {$Lin} both perish in the Absolute Soul Formation?
星凝还未说完，便已是化作一道流光消失在了大殿中。¤Xing Ning had yet to finish speaking when she had already transformed into a flowing light and disappeared in the great hall.
即便我不在，就那几位元婴邪修和冲虚散人，凭你化神强者的实力还不是手到擒来？¤Even if I'm not there, with just those few nascent soul devil cultivators and hermit Chong Xu, isn't it easy for you as a deity transformation expert to capture them?
不，当时我并不在宫中。而且鸾儿也只是向我汇报说冲虚散人私通魔教被她发现，正在追回，而不是向我请求帮助。以鸾儿的实力对付冲虚散人绰绰有余，更何况我还安排心儿前往支援。¤No, I was not in the palace at that time. And Luanner only reported to me that Hermit Chong Xu was secretly colluding with the demonic sect and was being pursued, instead of requesting my help. With Luanner's strength, she was more than capable of dealing with Hermit Chong Xu, and I even arranged for Little Xin to support her.
但还好结果没让我失望，尤其是他用那什么“玄骨”唬住你的时候，只有我知道阵法里根本就没有其他人。当时你们认真的表情真是精彩，嘻嘻。¤to deceive you. Only I knew that there was no one else in the array. Your serious expression at that time was really wonderful, hehe.
在{$Xing}眼里，化神之下皆蝼蚁么？¤In {$Xing}'s eyes, are all under deity transformation mere ants?
呃...¤Uh...
若不是心儿告诉我你也会一同前往支援，我甚至没打算关注此次事件。¤If it weren't for Little Xin telling me that you would also go to support, I wouldn't even have planned to pay attention to this incident.
所以现在想来，冲虚散人多半是故意露的马脚，其实早就与古神教勾结意图陷害我。而我竟一时大意没有多想，险些让鸾儿命丧于此。¤Therefore, thinking back now, the hermit Chong Xu was most likely deliberately revealing his true colors, and had long been colluding with the Ancient God Sect with the intention of framing me. And I, being careless for a moment, almost caused Luanner to lose her life here.
这次还真要感谢你呢。¤This time, I really have to thank you.
哼，若不是无惑对星宫有功，冲虚散人又是他最喜爱的弟子，此人在我眼中不过蝼蚁而已，敢暗通魔教碾死便是了。所以令鸾儿与心儿将之追回已算得上是关照有加，我又何必再多加关注。¤Hmph. If it weren't for Wuhuo's credit towards Star Palace and the fact that Hermit Chong Xu is his favorite disciple, this person is nothing more than an ant in my eyes. Dare to conspire with the Magic Cult and be crushed to death. Therefore, sending Luan'er and Xin'er to retrieve him can be considered as taking care of him. Why should I pay more attention to it?
啊！差点忘了，我还要去给鸾儿疗伤呢！¤Ah! Almost forgot, I still need to go heal Luan'er's injuries!
哦？你不是说冲虚散人只是蝼蚁嘛，为何我一来你就亲自前往了？¤Oh? Didn't you say that the hermit Chong Xu was just an ant? Why did you personally come to me as soon as I arrived?
自然不是，先不说星宫中人。若不是关注你，此次我又怎会亲自前往。¤Of course not, let's not even talk about the people in the Star Palace. If it weren't for my interest in you, I wouldn't have personally come this time.
（虽然当时确实被她蒙住了，但至少...从结果来看不是坏事吧。）¤(Although she did deceive me at the time, at least... judging by the results, it wasn't a bad thing.)
我这不是出于关心么，没想到你不但不感谢竟还质疑，真是浪费我一番好心。¤I was just trying to show my concern, but I never expected you not only wouldn't appreciate it, but also questioned me. It's really a waste of my good intentions.
（怎么总觉得她说的话哪里有矛盾？）¤(Why do I always feel like there's a contradiction in what she's saying?)
那血剑宫的赤目长老的确是白帝楼所下的悬赏，可惜这次没能拿下他，让他逃回了雍州。¤The Scarlet Eye Elder of Blood Sword Palace was indeed the target of the reward offered by White Emperor Pavilion. Unfortunately, he couldn't be captured this time and managed to escape back to Yongzhou.
琚运琦之事总算是告一段落了...¤The matter regarding Ju Yunqi has finally come to an end...
但不管怎么说，这次能当场抓住琚运琦的把柄，你也居功至伟，这赏金当有你的一份。¤But no matter what, being able to catch Ju Yunqi on the spot this time, you also have great merit, and there will be a share of reward for you.
接下来的事情先交给你了。我还有些事要与{$daihao}说。¤I'll leave the rest to you. I still have some things to discuss with {$daihao}.
总之，他口中还有许多秘密可挖，活着比死了更有价值。¤In short, there are still many secrets to be uncovered in his mouth, and living is more valuable than dying.
对了，琚运琦有一事倒是没有骗你。¤By the way, Ju Yunqi did not actually deceive you about something.
这次没能留住琚运琦，你准备怎么办？¤Since we couldn't keep Ju Yunqi this time, what are you going to do?
我倒是很想看看，曾经的风雨楼大长老，会怎么应对风雨楼的追杀。¤I really want to see how the former Fengyu Manor Supreme Elder will deal with the chase from Storm Manor.
还好...有你帮我。¤Fortunately...I have you to help me.
{$TmpTalkString}，我知道你一定有很多问题想要问我...我一定知无不言。¤{$TmpTalkString}, I know you must have a lot of questions you want to ask me...I will certainly tell you everything.
那血剑宫的赤目长老的确是白帝楼所下的悬赏，这次能顺利解决掉他，你居功至伟，赏金理应归你所有。¤The Scarlet Eye Elder of Blood Sword Palace was indeed a bounty set by White Emperor Pavilion. If you can successfully deal with him this time, you will be credited with great achievements and the reward money should belong to you.
我此前一直在犹豫是否要将这些秘术传授于你，它们一定会让你的实力大上一个台阶，但若你因为修炼这些秘术而亏损寿元，又实非我愿...¤Beforehand, I was hesitant about whether or not to pass on these secret arts to you. They will definitely help you advance your cultivation to the next level, but if you were to lose lifespan due to practicing them, that is not something I would want...
{$TmpTalkString}不觉得有趣么？¤Don't you find {$TmpTalkString} interesting?
只不过，因为体质特殊的原因，玄女并未和其他死士一般修习风雨楼秘术，而是由爷爷另授了一套适合她修炼的法门。¤However, due to her unique physique, the mysterious girl did not cultivate the secret arts of Storm Manor like other assassins, but instead was taught a set of techniques that were suitable for her cultivation by her grandfather.
无妨。¤It doesn't matter.
当年爷爷培养的那批死士中，玄女是年纪最小的。论辈分而言...应该算是琚运琦的小师妹吧。¤Among the group of assassins trained by my grandfather back then, Mysterious Girl was the youngest. In terms of seniority...she should be considered Ju Yunqi's younger sister.
{$TmpTalkString}，你的这份情义，我不会忘。¤{$TmpTalkString}, I will not forget your loyalty.
跑得了一时，跑不了一世。等上了风雨楼的悬赏，他以后的日子可就没那么好过了。¤Can run for a while but can't run forever. Once he is on the wanted list of Storm Manor, his future days won't be so good.
他的这份赏金，也该归你所有。¤This bounty of his should also be yours.
这些秘术是当年望风与听雨二人留下的，它们的厉害之处你也已经领教过了。¤These secret arts were left behind by the two who kept watch and listened to the rain back then, and you have already experienced their prowess.
说到这里，公孙季仿佛终于松了一口气。¤Speaking of this, Gongsun Ji seemed to finally relax.
不管怎么说，这件事的决定权应该交给你自己。亏损的寿元的确无法挽回，但这些秘术在关键时刻或许能救你一命也未可知。¤In any case, the decision-making authority for this matter should be left to you. The lost lifespan is truly irrecoverable, but it is unknown whether these secret arts can save your life in critical moments.
你准备公开悬赏他？¤Are you ready to publicly offer a bounty for him?
原来如此...所以她会特别关注与血剑宫有关的悬赏吧...¤So that's why she pays special attention to bounties related to Blood Sword Palace...
另外，这次若非有你在，我们也没这么容易能活捉琚运琦，到时难免要另行悬赏。¤Additionally, if it weren't for you being here this time, we wouldn't have been able to capture Ju Yunqi so easily. We will have to offer a separate reward in the future.
这些年来，公孙府内有不少长老被他收买。除此以外，他还有几条暗线专门接取一些特殊的悬赏用以敛财。¤In recent years, many elders in the Gongsun House have been bought by him. In addition, he also has several secret channels specifically for acquiring special bounties to accumulate wealth.
爷爷死后，这批风雨楼死士皆由琚运琦接手。但我曾找了个机会暗示过她，爷爷或是被琚运琦所害，因此她一直保有戒心。¤After Grandfather passed away, the group of Storm Manor assassins were taken over by Ju Yunqi. But I once hinted to her that Grandfather might have been harmed by Ju Yunqi, so she has always been cautious.
当年爷爷遇害之时，我修为尚浅，在风雨楼内也无根基，想扳倒琚运琦实非易事。¤When my grandfather was killed, my cultivation was still weak and I had no foundation in Storm Manor. It was not easy to bring down Ju Yunqi.
道友，要住店么？¤Fellow daoist, do you need to stay at an inn? 
让我想想...¤Let me think...
哼，我们走！¤Hmph, let's go!
这群禾山道的修士果然难缠，还是想想办法再来吧。¤These cultivators of Mt. Harvest Sect are indeed difficult to deal with. Let's think of a solution before coming back.
还是好好提升一番实力，等五年后再来吧。¤It's better to improve one's strength properly and come back in five years.
人外有人，天外有天，让你这{xiaozi}多吃吃教训也好。¤There are people beyond human and heavens beyond heaven, it's good to teach you, little guy.
这一轮的对手好像只是普通的散修...¤This round's opponent seems to be just a normal cultivator...
这一轮的对手好像是公孙家的修士...¤The opponent of this round seems to be a cultivator from the Gongsun family...
恭喜{FirstName}{LastName}选手获得第一轮比试的胜利。¤Congratulations to {FirstName}{LastName} for winning the first round of the competition.
我们稍微调整，马上开始进行第二轮的比试！¤We will make slight adjustments and start the second round of the competition immediately!
咳咳咳...没想到第一轮就输了...¤Cough cough cough...didn't expect to lose in the first round...
这一轮的对手好像是百里家的修士...¤This round's opponent seems to be a Baili family cultivator...
你这{xiaozi}才修炼没几日，要是能赢那才叫奇怪。¤You, {xiaozi}, have only been cultivating for a few days. If you can win, that would be truly strange.
交易会很快就要开始了，道友请随我来。¤The trade fair is about to begin, fellow daoist, please follow me.
我没什么兴趣。¤I have no interest.
今年除了这拍卖会外，我们天机阁还受人之托，将要举办一场只针对元婴期以上修士的小型交易会，不知道友可有兴趣参加？¤This year, besides this auction, our Heavenly Secrets Pavilion has also been entrusted to hold a small trading event exclusively for cultivators at the Nascent Soul stage or above. I don't know if my fellow daoists would be interested in participating?
小型交易会？¤Small trade fair?
我们天机阁的拍卖会虽然盛名在外，但还是会有一些道友虽有重宝在身，却不想只用来交换灵石，而是希望能直接兑换到一些自己急需的物品。¤Our Heavenly Machine Pavilion's auction has a great reputation, but there are still some fellow daoists who possess valuable treasures but do not want to exchange them solely for spirit stones. Instead, they hope to directly exchange them for some items they urgently need.
道友若有兴致的话，不妨来看一看。¤If fellow daoist is interested, they may take a look.
像这种小型交易会，只是提供给道友一个以物易物的机会，所以有时甚至能换取到一些平日里在拍卖会上都见不到的稀有物件。¤Small-scale trades like this are just providing a chance for fellow daoists to exchange goods, so sometimes even rare items that are not seen at auction houses on ordinary days can be obtained.
道友请留步。¤Fellow daoist, please stay.
还是凑足灵石再来吧。¤Better gather enough spirit stones before coming.
我派不擅炼丹，{shixiong}若有需要，可以自行使用炼丹房。¤My sect is not skilled in alchemy. If {shixiong} needs it, you can use the alchemy room on your own.
我派不擅炼丹，{shidi}若有需要，可以自行使用炼丹房。¤My sect is not adept in alchemy. If {shidi} needs it, they can use the alchemy room themselves.
吼~¤Roar~
不错的灵力，这只三目妖狼绝非普通的筑基期妖兽实力，小心应对。¤Good spiritual power, this three-eyed demon wolf is definitely not a normal foundation establishment spirit beast, be careful in dealing with it.
这位道友，建议你还是去碎星商会问一问吧，他们终日行于海上，应该会知道更多相关情况。¤Fellow Daoist, we suggest that you go and ask the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. They constantly travel the seas and should know more about the relevant situation.
刚才已经告诉道友了，我们万宝楼对图南海的状况并不熟悉，你还是去碎星商会问问吧。¤I already told my fellow daoist earlier that we are not familiar with the situation in South Tu Sea, so you should go and ask the Shattered Star Merchant Guild instead.
不好意思，我们这万宝楼忙着买卖，平时也没什么太多余力关心图南海的太多状况，对岛外之事知之甚少。¤Sorry, our Ten Thousand Treasure House is busy with buying and selling, and we don't have much spare capacity to care about the situation in the South Tu Sea. We know very little about things outside of the island.
你可以看到，此处不过是一个简单的洞穴。¤You can see that this is just a simple cave.
这里的下等魔本身没有灵智，但被击溃后体内魔气便会消散，并掉落我们所需的这种{color=#d0380a}灵核{/color}。¤The inferior demons here have no intelligence, but their magic qi will dissipate and drop the {color=#d0380a}spirit nucleus{/color} we need once they are defeated.
天魔眼本是宁州一处极为富饶的灵脉所在，但不知从何时起，这里竟开始源源不断地产生魔气，并渐渐凝聚为一种奇异的魔物。¤The Heavenly Devil's Eye was originally located in a very rich spiritual vein in Ningzhou, but at some unknown point in time, magic qi began to continuously emerge and gradually condense into a strange type of spirit beast.
青石灵脉位于宁州西部山脉，与衡州接壤。灵脉由各大宗门轮流管理，对所有普通修士开放。¤The Greenstone Spirit Vein is located in the western mountain range of Ningzhou, bordering Hengzhou. The vein is managed by various clans in turns and is open to all ordinary cultivators.
不过想要抢占其中比较好的采集点，还需自身实力过硬才行，青石灵脉深处可不乏金丹期甚至元婴期的高手。¤However, if you want to seize the better gathering spots among them, you need to be strong enough. The deepest part of the greenstone spirit vein is not lacking in experts at the golden core and even nascent soul stage.
{FirstName}长老，宗门现在正在收集灵核用以布阵，你若是有多余的灵核，可以在我这里换取突破境界时需要用到的珍贵丹药与秘术。{w}{w=0.5}¤Elder {FirstName}, our clan is currently gathering spiritual cores to set up an array. If you have any extra spiritual cores, you can exchange them with me for precious pills and secret arts needed for breakthroughs. {w}{w=0.5}
{FirstName}{shixiong}，宗门现在正在收集灵核用以布阵，你若是有多余的灵核，可以在我这里换取突破境界时需要用到的珍贵丹药与秘术。{w}{w=0.5}¤{FirstName}{shixiong}, the clan is currently gathering spirit cores to set up formations. If you have any extra spirit cores, you can exchange them with me for precious pills and secret arts needed for breakthroughs. {w}{w=0.5}
白帝楼现在正在收集灵核用以布阵，你若是有多余的灵核，可以在我这里换取突破境界时需要用到的珍贵丹药与秘术。{w}{w=0.5}¤The White Emperor Pavilion is currently collecting spirit cores for formations. If you have any extra spirit cores, you can exchange them with me for precious pills and secret arts needed for breakthroughs. {w}{w=0.5}
灵核通常在灵气充沛的{color=#d0380a}洞窟或者矿脉{/color}附近就有机会找到。宁州最大的灵核矿脉便是青石灵脉，大部分的灵核都产自那里。除此以外，{color=#d0380a}天魔眼{/color}中的魔物体内也会凝结这种灵核。¤Spirit cores can often be found near {color=#d0380a}caves or veins of ore{/color} where spiritual energy is abundant. The largest vein of spirit cores in Ningzhou is the Greenstone Spirit Vein, from which the majority of spirit cores are produced. In addition, the demon beasts in the {color=#d0380a}Heavenly Devil's Eye{/color} can also condense this type of spirit core within their bodies.
见过师祖，不知师祖有何吩咐？¤Greetings, Master. May I know your orders?
如今的天魔眼虽然被各大门派与家族封印，但每过二十年仍需派有筑基期修为的弟子前去清缴。¤Currently, although the Heavenly Devil's Eye has been sealed by various sects and families, every twenty years disciples with Foundation Establishment cultivation must still be sent to clean up.
你回去告诉宁王，等这炉丹药炼制完成，按照约定我会给他送去一颗。¤You go back and tell the Ning King that when this pill is finished refining, according to the agreement, I will send him one.
此人已在府内待满6日，大部分时间都在屋内享受足不出户，想必如今药性也渗透的差不多了吧。¤This person has been staying in the mansion for 6 days, mostly enjoying the comfort of staying indoors. Presumably by now the medicine has sufficiently permeated their system.
人带来了么？¤Did people bring it?
此人已在府内待满6日，这6日内倒有{$TempValue}日在到处闲逛取乐，想必如今药性也渗透的差不多了吧。¤This person has been staying in the mansion for six days, during which {$TempValue} days were spent wandering around and having fun. It is likely that the medicine has already permeated their body by now.
呵呵，看来此时药性已经发作，他这一身修为都被吸收了个干净，待我将他炼成精粉，做这药引子是刚刚好。¤Heh heh, it seems that the medicinal effects have already taken effect. All of his cultivation has been completely absorbed. Once I refine him into essence powder, he will be the perfect medicinal catalyst.
你大惊失色，连忙运足一口灵气，怎想体内灵力一运转起来，便自动消散的无影无踪。¤You were greatly alarmed and quickly activated your spiritual power, but to your surprise, your inner spiritual energy dissipated automatically without a trace.
惊恐之下，还没等你缕清其中原委，便眼前一黑失去了知觉...¤In a state of shock, before you even had a chance to figure out what was going on, you blacked out and lost consciousness...
许长老，人已经带到了。¤Elder Xu, the person has already been brought over.
此人已在府内待满6日，这6日内倒有{$TempValue}日在花天酒地，想必如今药性也渗透的差不多了吧。¤This person has been staying in the mansion for a full 6 days, and during these 6 days, {$TempValue} days were spent in revelry. Presumably, the medicine has also permeated through their system by now.
你随着管事竟一路走到了城外，正当你觉得奇怪是什么任务不能在王府内说，而偏要跑到城外来时，一个低沉的声音传入你的耳朵。¤You followed the steward all the way to the city outskirts, just when you were wondering why a task couldn't be discussed within the royal palace and had to run to the outskirts, a deep voice sounded in your ear.
身上的灵石似乎不够了...¤It seems that I don't have enough spirit stones on me...
道友，请。¤Fellow Daoist, please.
地火房租借，一次200灵石。{w}{w=0.5}¤Renting the Earth Fire Room costs 200 spirit stones per use.
炼器室租借，一次200灵石。{w}{w=0.5}¤Refining room rental, 200 spirit stones per session. {w}{w=0.5}
道友，您这钱可不够买下这灵舟的。¤Fellow Daoist, your money is not enough to buy this Spirit Boat.
哎？道友，说了这么多，来看看小店的灵舟吧！¤Oh? Fellow Daoist, after saying so much, come and take a look at the Spirit Boat in my little shop!
这无尽之海上大抵有着十几片海域，有的海域风平浪静，有的海域波涛诡谲......我哪有那个胆子出海啊，这些都是从那些归来的修士那打听来的。¤On this endless sea, there are roughly a dozen sea regions, some with calm winds and waves, and some with erratic waves...I don't have the courage to go out to sea, this information was obtained from those cultivators who have returned.
紫衫舟的售价是1440灵石，道友确定要这艘灵舟吗？¤The price of the Purple Shirt Boat is 1440 spirit stones. Fellow Daoist, do you confirm that you want this spirit boat?
沉沙舟的售价是30240灵石，道友确定要这艘灵舟吗？¤The price of the Sinking Sand Boat is 30240 spirit stones. Fellow daoist, are you sure you want to purchase this spirit boat?
铁木舟的售价是82944灵石，道友确定要这艘灵舟吗？¤The selling price of the Iron Wooden Boat is 82944 spirit stones, fellow daoist, are you sure you want this spirit boat?
目前没有前往无尽之海的船只。¤Currently there are no ships heading towards the Endless Sea.
抱歉，目前可用的灵舟已经全部出租了。¤Sorry, all available Spirit Boats have already been rented out.
听他们说这海上还会遇到风暴乱流，那风浪刮起来，啧啧啧...幸好小店的灵舟坚固耐用，他们才幸免于难。¤Listening to them, they said that they might encounter storms and rough currents on the sea, and if the winds and waves pick up, oh... luckily the spirit boat of the small shop is sturdy and durable, so they were able to avoid danger.
本店小本生意，只出售一至四阶的灵舟。五阶灵舟拍卖会上尚可一见，至于六阶灵舟则可遇而不可求，整个宁州怕是也没有几艘。¤Our shop only sells spirit boats of first to fourth tier. Fifth tier spirit boats can still be found in auction, as for sixth tier spirit boats, they are rare and hard to come by. There are probably only a few in the whole Ningzhou.
无尽之海上的海兽修为大多在金丹期之上，实力强劲。故此道友修为若未至金丹且千万小心，已有不少修士不听劝告，落了个舟毁人亡的下场。¤On the endless sea, most sea beasts' cultivation levels are above the Golden Core stage, possessing strong power. Therefore, fellow cultivators who have not reached the Golden Core stage should be extremely cautious. There have already been many cultivators who did not heed warnings and have met with the tragic fate of their boats being destroyed and themselves killed.
桃木舟的售价是6912灵石，道友确定要这艘灵舟吗？¤The selling price of the Peach Wood Boat is 6912 Spirit Stones. Fellow Daoist, are you sure you want this Spirit Boat?
道友若想前往无尽之海历练，灵舟乃必不可少之物。¤Fellow daoist, if you wish to train in the Endless Sea, a spirit boat is an essential item.
唉，四阶灵舟损毁一艘少一艘，就算卖给这些人了也不能这么糟蹋呀...¤Ah, one of the fourth-tier spirit boats was damaged and one was lost. Even if we sell them to these people, we can't treat them so badly...
这灵舟共分六种品阶，其中一阶灵舟最为常见，成本也最为低廉。因其品质粗劣，故只可在近海航行，若道友想探索远海，最好更换品阶更高的灵舟。¤The spirit boat is divided into six classes, with the first class being the most common and also the cheapest. Due to its poor quality, it can only sail in the near sea. If fellow daoists want to explore the far sea, it is best to upgrade to a higher class spirit boat.
{FirstName}\r{LastName}上台对阵！¤{FirstName}\r{LastName} is on stage to compete!
接下来你们四人将进行最后的两轮比试，只有最终夺魁者才能够直接晋升为内门弟子，希望你们都能发挥出自己的实力。¤Next, the four of you will have the final two rounds of competition, and only the ultimate winner can directly be promoted to be an inner disciple. I hope you all can show your own abilities.
诸位同门，本次宗门大比已决出了前四位弟子，他们也将各自得到门派奖赏的筑基丹一枚。¤Dear fellow members, the top four disciples have been decided in this clan competition, and they will each receive a foundation pill as a reward from the sect.
承让。¤Please go ahead.
请。¤Please.
你顺利地又赢下了第二轮的比试，台下传来一片叫好声。¤You smoothly won the second round of the competition, and cheers erupted from the audience.
（比起端木林，身为剑修的温杰强的不止一筹。）¤(Compared to Duan Mulin, Wen Jie who is a sword cultivator is much stronger.)
哎，没办法，就算对内门弟子来说，筑基丹也是很重要的。¤Ah, there's no way around it. Even for inner disciples, the foundation pill is very important.
{FirstName}{shixiong}两战连胜，说不定可以争夺魁首之位。¤{FirstName} Shixiong has won two consecutive battles, maybe he can compete for the top spot.
XXX对阵墨景山！¤XXX versus Mo Jingshan!
{FirstName}{shixiong}早就拿过大比魁首了，还来与我们这些外门弟子争夺名额...¤{FirstName}{shixiong} has long since won the top spot in the grand competition, yet they still compete with us outer disciples for spots...
请赐教。¤Please provide me with your guidance.
{shidi}，温杰在外门之中也是有名的强手，你能战胜端木林已是不易，不要太过在意一时的胜负。¤{Junior fellow}, Wen Jie is also a well-known expert among the outer disciples. It's not easy to defeat Duan Mulin, so don't worry too much about winning or losing in the moment.
不敢当。¤I dare not.
唉，看来我还是太过急躁了，现在的我难以再大比中取得成绩。¤Ah, it seems I'm still too impatient. It's difficult for me to achieve great results now.
（温杰都败了，X师弟此次真的是一鸣惊人了。）¤(Wen Jie has lost, Junior X has truly risen to fame this time.)
墨师兄，据称闭关研习地阶功法《五毒噬心决》。这一场不知是更强。¤Senior Brother Mo is said to have been in seclusion studying 《Heart Eater Technique》, an earthly ranked skill of the Five Poison Eaters. It's unclear who will emerge stronger from this battle.
连温师兄都不敌此人，看来本次大比倒是又多出一个猛人。¤Even senior brother Wen couldn't defeat this person, it seems that this competition has produced another formidable opponent.
不过，这雷劫只针对渡劫之人。即便他人有心帮忙抵挡，不仅对你没有任何帮助，反而自己会受到雷劫的攻击。¤However, this thunder tribulation only targets those who are crossing the tribulation. Even if others have the intention of helping you resist it, it will not only be of no help to you, but will also make them suffer from the thunder strike.
{FirstName}供奉，据我龙族前辈记载，人类修士渡劫飞升需经过九道天雷劫，而每一道的威能都会不断提升。¤{FirstName} is a guest elder, according to the records of my dragon clan's senior. Human cultivators need to go through nine tribulations of heavenly lightning to transition to ascension, and each one's power will constantly increase.
所以，这九道雷劫只能由{FirstName}供奉自己去面对。是魂飞魄散，还是得道飞升，都看今日了。¤Therefore, these nine thunder kalpas can only be faced by {FirstName} as a guest elder. Whether their soul will scatter or they will ascend to the Dao, it all depends on today.
你把东西都毁了，我以后练什么？难道让我抱着本禾山经练一辈子吗？¤You destroyed everything, what am I going to practice in the future? Do you expect me to hold onto the Harvest Mountain Manual for the rest of my life?
听着他不停的叫骂，你内心五味陈杂。¤As you listen to his continuous cursing, your heart is filled with mixed feelings.
无论会不会有无辜凡人因此获救，但麻老九突破的希望毫无疑问又小了一分。你叹了口气，转过身径直离开了。¤No matter if innocent mortals would be saved, the hope of breakthrough for Old Ma decreased without a doubt. You sighed and turned around, leaving straight away.
你并没有下死手，只是当着他的面，又使出几发火球将颜老怪的洞府轰了个干净。¤You didn't kill him, but in front of him, you launched a few fireballs and completely destroyed Geezer Yan's cave.
抱歉…¤Sorry...
我算是看错你了，你跟那些伪君子根本就是一路货色！¤I misjudged you, you and those fake gentlemen are just the same kind of people!
也好。¤Okay.
葛道友，玄道宗这是发生什么了？¤Ge Fellow Daoist, what is happening to Xuan Dao Sect?
或者，我们也可以尝试联系玄道宗的幸存者，摸清天魔教的底细后再做打算。¤Alternatively, we can try contacting the surviving members of Xuan Dao Sect and gather information on the details of Heavenly Demon Cult before making a plan.
不必客气。天魔眼事关重大，我想与炎萧道友先行前往打探情况，而葛道友负责通知宁州各大势力。不知两位意下如何？¤No need to be courteous. The matter concerning the Heavenly Devil's Eye is of great importance. I want to go ahead with fellow daoist Yan Xiao to investigate the situation, while fellow daoist Ge will be responsible for notifying the major forces in Ningzhou. What do you think?
对手的焦急你看在眼里，心里更是深知待炎萧解决完所有对手与你夹攻这元婴后期魔修时，胜利便是唾手可得。¤You see your opponent's anxiety in your eyes, and you know in your heart that victory will be within reach once Yan Xiao has dealt with all the opponents and you have teamed up to attack this late nascent soul demonic cultivator.
所幸有{FirstName}{$DaoYou1}与炎萧道友前来相助，不然还不知该当如何是好。¤Fortunately, with {FirstName} and {$DaoYou1} fellow daoist coming to help, otherwise I wouldn't know what to do.
这魔修虽说境界高于你，但你有法宝护体，倒也不那么惧他。¤Although this demonic cultivator's realm is higher than yours, you are not so afraid of him because you have an artifact to protect you.
但此时的他哪还有上次见面时的谦逊随和。¤But at this moment, he no longer had the humility and amiability he had when they last met.
但这天魔道不知是用何手段，不但令门中传音符尽皆失效，而且宁州其他修士似是没有发现玄道宗的异状一般，十数日过去也未曾前来。¤But this heavenly demon cult disciple used some unknown method, not only rendering the sound talismans within the sect powerless, but also seemingly preventing other cultivators in Ningzhou from noticing the abnormality of Xuan Dao Sect. Over ten days have passed and they have yet to come.
（好！就是现在！）{vpunch=10,0.5}¤(Alright! It's now!) {vpunch=10,0.5}
此前路过广陵城时我曾留心观察过，其中修士未曾有什么奇怪的表现，还是和平日一样。魔修应该是奇袭玄道宗，大胜之后封锁了消息，目的应该是天魔眼。我们本应去阻止，但只怕来的元婴修士不少，仅凭你我二人难以应对。¤Previously, when passing by Guangling City, I observed that the cultivators there did not show any unusual behavior and acted normally. It seems that the demonic cultivators attacked Xuan Dao Sect and blocked the news, likely in search of the Heavenly Devil's Eye. We should have gone to stop them, but we may not be able to handle it with just the two of us against possibly numerous Nascent Soul cultivators.
先正面受这一击的魔修陨落于此，近旁的玄道宗大阵甚至是因余波而剧烈颤动起来，远方与炎萧激斗的魔修更是个个都对神通的爆发处侧目，显然是没想到一个炎萧本就十分棘手了，与他同行之人的实力更是难以想象。¤The demonic cultivator who took the hit head-on perished here, and even the nearby Xuan Dao Sect's array shook violently due to the shockwaves. The demonic cultivators who were battling Yan Xiao in the distance all glanced towards the outbreak of divine skill, obviously not expecting that a formidable opponent like Yan Xiao was already difficult enough, and his companions were even harder to imagine in terms of strength.
一旁的炎萧甚至来不及出手，只能在一旁感慨你的强大。¤Yan Xiao, who was beside him, couldn't even react in time and could only sigh at your strength from the sidelines.
但一月前天魔道大举来犯，我玄道宗一时不敌，只好令剩余弟子躲入护宗大阵中，以求获得宁州其他正道的支援。¤But a month ago, the Heavenly Demon Cult made a massive invasion. My Xuan Dao Sect was unable to resist and had to order the remaining disciples to hide inside the sect's protective array, hoping to gain support from other righteous paths in Ningzhou.
当下玄道宗遭劫，天魔眼状况不明，不如葛道友前往各大势力通知，而我和{FirstName}小友先行前往天魔眼摸清状况吧。¤Currently, the Xuan Dao Sect has been attacked and the condition of the Heavenly Devil's Eye is unknown. It would be best for Fellow Daoist Ge to inform other major powers while Young Friend {FirstName} and I proceed to investigate the condition of the Heavenly Demon. 
你用法宝将飞来的玄紫色神通格开后，趁着那魔修旧招已穷新招未至之时，手掐秘诀，积蓄已久的庞大灵力也随之宣泄而出。¤You used your artifact to block the incoming divine skill colored in purple. Taking advantage of the moment when the demonic cultivator's old move had been replaced by a new one, you quickly cast a secret spell and unleashed the massive spiritual power that had been accumulating within you.
但留在玄道宗伏击的魔修才这么几个，恐怕玄道宗现在还有战斗力的修士更少。¤But there are only a few demonic cultivators left ambushing in the Xuan Dao Sect, it is feared that there are even fewer cultivators with combat power left in the Xuan Dao Sect.
可在你二人强大的实力面前，并不会给他自爆元婴的机会。几乎是同一时间，你的法宝，炎萧的神通一齐贯穿了这魔修的身体，抹去了他的存在。¤Before your two powerful strengths, he won't have the opportunity to self-destruct his nascent soul. Almost at the same time, your artifact and Yan Xiao's divine skill pierced through the body of this demonic cultivator, erasing their existence.
且受伤之处有魔气黏着，反倒是没有血液流出，在旁人看来称得上是诡异。¤And there was magic qi clinging to the injured areas, with no blood flowing out, which seemed eerie to onlookers.
他惯穿的那身纤尘不染的白色道袍如今下摆已是破败不堪，右肩部分更是少了一大块，露出里面被魔气沾染的伤口。脸上虽看似保持着平静，但眉头间凝结着不甘，眼神中更是蕴含着杀意。¤The pristine white dao robe that he usually wears is now tattered and torn, with a missing chunk on the right shoulder revealing a wound stained with magic qi. Despite his seemingly calm expression, there is a deep resentment between his eyebrows and a murderous intent hidden in his eyes.
对于魔道，宁州各大势力同气连枝，自是我炎萧分内之事。¤For the demonic path, it is within my responsibilities as Yan Xiao to stand with the various forces of Ningzhou in solidarity.
所幸有炎萧道友携{FirstName}小友前来相助，不然还不知该当如何是好。¤Fortunately, Fellow Daoist Yan Xiao brought Young Friend {FirstName} here to help, otherwise we wouldn't know what to do.
你与那魔修斗得个你来我往，由外人看来大有纠缠上数十乃至数百回合之意。但局势并未这么简单而冗长地发展。¤You and the demon cultivator fought back and forth, to outsiders it seemed like a tangled mess that went on for dozens, even hundreds of rounds. But the situation did not actually unfold so simply and lengthily.
正是你此前在玄道宗大殿见过的葛白衣。¤It is precisely the Ge Baiyi you saw in the Xuan Dao Sect's main hall before.
连玄道宗大阵都未能攻破，魔修此行应当是没有化神战力前来。料想魔修的目的也应该是天魔眼，我们这便出发吧。¤Even the Xuan Dao Sect's great formation couldn't be broken, so the demonic cultivator who came this time should not have the power to transform into a deity. It's expected that the purpose of the demonic cultivator must be the Heavenly Devil's Eye. Let's set out now.
所幸有{FirstName}{$DaoYou1}携炎萧道友前来相助，不然还不知该当如何是好。¤Fortunately, {FirstName} and {$DaoYou1} fellow daoist arrived to lend a hand with Yan Xiao. Otherwise, who knows what would have happened.
还得从上次与{FirstName}{$DaoYou1}见面说起。当时{$DaoYou1}走后，我立即加强天魔眼外驻守的人马，但一直未能发现魔修的相关行踪。久而久之，玄道宗上下又逐渐进入平日的状态。¤I'll have to start from last time I met {FirstName}{$DaoYou1}. After {$DaoYou1} left, I immediately reinforced the personnel stationed outside with heavenly demon eyes, but I still couldn't find any trace of the demonic cultivators. Over time, the Xuan Dao Sect gradually returned to its normal state.
倒是天魔道又攻击大阵几日后，只留下几人埋伏便是离去，只怕是想对天魔眼做些什么。但在下与门中剩余战斗力皆是身负重伤，尝试数次后依旧难以突围。¤However, after the Heavenly Demon Cult attacked the grand array for a few days, they left behind only a few people in ambush, probably wanting to do something to the Heavenly Demon's Eye. But I and the remaining combat power in the sect are all suffering from serious injuries and have tried several times but still cannot break through.
但你可没闲工夫观察自己的伤口，这魔气侵蚀的可不仅是你的身体，甚至连你的神魂都感觉像是要被一口一口撕咬而后吞噬。¤But you don't have time to observe your wounds, this magic qi is devouring not only your body, but even your soul feels like it's being ripped and torn apart before being consumed.
好，好快！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Good, good fast! {vpunch=10,0.5}
而那魔修就没这么从容了。¤But the demonic cultivator didn't have such ease.
不必多礼。天魔眼事关重要，我这就动身前往。¤No need for courtesy. The Heavenly Devil's Eye is of great importance, I will set off immediately.
估计这玄道宗此前遭了魔修袭击，这才开启护山大阵。而后可能是魔修实力太强，玄道宗修士不敢出大阵一步，只能龟缩在宗门内部。¤Estimatedly, Xuan Dao Sect was attacked by demonic cultivators before, hence why they activated the mountain protection array. Afterwards, it's possible that the demonic cultivators were too strong, causing Xuan Dao Sect's cultivators to not dare to step out of the array and could only stay within the confines of their clan.
甚好。¤Very good.
你还未来得及掐法诀驱动法宝和护体神通，已是被血魂煞近身！¤You haven't had time to activate your artifact and defensive divine skill with the magic incantation, and the Blood Soul Demon is already close to you!
葛白衣显然是在护宗大阵上打开个口子之前，就已经知道山脚处战后获胜的是你与炎萧二人，见到你们并没有太惊讶。¤Ge Baiyi clearly knew before opening a hole in the protective formation of the sect that you and Yan Xiao had won the battle at the foot of the mountain. He was not too surprised to see you both.
出于对自己实力的自信，你并没有选择这种以拖为主的平淡战斗方式。¤Due to your confidence in your own strength, you did not choose this dragging and plain way of combat.
不等你再做什么防御手段，只觉身体像是要被撕裂般，已然是布满了魔气留下的凌厉伤口。¤Without waiting for you to use any defence measures, you feel as if your body is about to be torn apart, already covered in sharp wounds left by the magic qi.
那晚辈便前往各大势力通知此事。¤That night the junior went to various forces to inform them of this matter.
这些个天魔道修士除一个最强的元婴后期还尝试挣扎了一番，其他甚至没来得及释放自己最后的神通便是陨落于此。¤These heavenly demon cult cultivators, aside from the strongest late nascent soul who struggled for a moment, the rest even failed to release their final divine skill before falling here.
没问题。¤No problem.
没事吧？¤Are you alright?
此前路过广陵城时我曾留心观察过，其中修士未曾有什么奇怪的表现，还是和平日一样。魔修应该是奇袭玄道宗，大胜之后封锁了消息，目的应该是天魔眼。不管他们的目的为何，我们都可以去尝试阻止他们。只是前来的元婴魔修应是不少，有些棘手。¤Before, when I passed through Guangling City, I carefully observed the cultivators there and saw no signs of anything strange. They seemed to be going about their daily business as usual. The demonic cultivators must have launched a surprise attack on Xuan Dao Sect and after their great victory, they sealed off all information because they seek the Heavenly Devil's Eye. Regardless of their intention, we need to try to stop them. However, there are quite a few nascent soul demonic cultivators who have come, so it may be quite challenging.
先不说你现在体内灵气被那侵入的魔气搅得紊乱不堪，神魂上的剧痛更是让你险些晕过去，完全没有抵抗的能力。只能在听到魔修的暴喝后，勉强抬头看一眼。¤For now, let's not talk about how the magic qi invading your body has caused chaos in your spiritual energy, the intense pain in your soul almost makes you faint, and you have no ability to resist. You can only barely lift your head and take a glance after hearing the angry shout from the demonic cultivator.
一边是自己面对一个金丹修士还久攻不下，另一边是炎萧对战一个元婴初期和数个金丹后期如入无人之境，两相影响之下这元婴后期魔修出手看似是越来越狠厉，但每每被你防下攻击时，心中是越来越焦急。¤On one side, I am still struggling to defeat a golden core cultivator, while on the other side, Yan Xiao is easily battling an early nascent soul cultivator and several late golden core cultivators without any difficulty. Under these circumstances, the magical cultivator at the late nascent soul stage appears to be getting more and more fierce with their attacks, but they become increasingly anxious whenever you block their strikes.
（遭了，这妖人比我想象的要棘手太多了！）¤(Oh no, this demon is much more difficult than I imagined!)
眼见那魔修的攻势一波快过一波，一波强过一波，你开始手忙脚乱了起来。有时甚至刚防住一个强力神通又是一道玄堇色魔气与你擦身而过，其裹挟的劲风都已是令你护体灵气溃散，乃至身体被擦伤。¤You see that the attacks of the demonic cultivator are getting faster and stronger, and you start to panic. Sometimes, just as you defend against a strong divine skill, a dark purple magic qi passes you by, carrying a force that breaks through your body protection and even scratches your body.
血魂煞！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Blood Soul Demon! {vpunch=10,0.5}
他虽然能隐隐感觉到炎萧状态并不太好，可从另一边传来的战斗余波来看，这火属性修士的战斗力绝对是碾压了一众天魔道修士！\n以至于那狂暴的火灵气都在这片小空间中占据了主导地位，让他心头的焦急更盛！¤Although he could faintly feel that Yan Xiao's status was not very good, judging from the residual combat waves coming from the other side, the combat power of this fire attribute cultivator definitely surpassed that of the Heavenly Demon Cult disciples! To the extent that the raging fire spirit energy dominated this small space, making his anxiety even greater!
但...¤But...
饶是这魔修已经在燃烧自身精血与神魂来提升战斗力，却也不过在你手下坚持数息时间。而另一名魔修虽说是果断，乃至是坚决地抛弃了同门，但在这极短的时间内也不过也未能远离你，更不用说逃出你的攻击范围了。¤Despite the fact that this demonic cultivator has been burning his own blood and soul to enhance his combat power, he can only withstand your attacks for a few moments under your hands. While the other demonic cultivator was resolute enough to abandon his fellow disciple, he hasn't been able to escape your attack range in this very short period of time, let alone get away from you.
造成这一边倒局势的，不是元婴修士与化神修士的差距，而是元婴修士与你的差距！¤The reason for the one-sided situation is not the difference between nascent soul cultivators and deity transformation cultivators, but the difference between nascent soul cultivators and you!
但入眼的却是一片火光。¤But what entered my eyes was a sea of flames.
在你加入后，不过一个照面剩余的金丹期魔修便是立时陨落，至于那元婴前期魔修也是没有能耐同时应付你二人，只得选择自爆元婴，以期给你们造成些许麻烦。¤After you joined, the remaining demonic cultivator in the golden core stage perished in just one glance. As for the demonic cultivator in the nascent soul stage, they didn't have the ability to deal with both of you at the same time and had to choose to self-destruct their nascent soul, hoping to cause some trouble for you.
这里怎会有魔修伏击？¤Why would there be demonic cultivators ambushing here?
更何况，那魔修眼看一击得手，并不准备给你喘息的时间，下一记足以致你陨落的神通俨然在蓄力中！¤Moreover, that demon cultivator, seeing that his attack was successful, was not prepared to give you any time to catch your breath, the next divine skill that could cause you to fall is already surging!
去死吧！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Die! {vpunch=10,0.5}
但未等你们得出结论，近旁的玄道宗大阵渐渐淡去。不多时，一道丈余高的通道出现在阵法上，随之走出一位身着白袍的修士。¤But before you can draw your conclusions, the nearby Xuan Dao Sect array gradually faded away. Shortly after, a passage over ten feet high appeared in the formation, and a cultivator dressed in white robe walked out of it.
所以我们尝试联系玄道宗的幸存者，摸清天魔教的底细后再做打算，可能会更好。¤So we will try to contact the survivors of the Xuan Dao Sect, figure out the details of the Heavenly Demon cult, and then make plans. It may be better.
但这魔修心里也没好受到哪去，即便他能解决你，还有炎萧等着他对付。¤But this demonic cultivator is also not feeling good in his heart. Even if he can deal with you, there is still Yan Xiao waiting for him to deal with.
但你并没有在意这些，只是淡定地前往他们的战场。¤But you did not pay attention to these, just calmly went to their battlefield.
但未等你回答，近旁的玄道宗大阵渐渐淡去。不多时，一道丈余高的通道出现在阵法上，随之走出一位身着白袍的修士。¤But before you could answer, the large array of Xuan Dao Sect nearby gradually faded away. Soon after, a passage over a zhang high appeared on the formation, and a cultivator dressed in white robe walked out from it.
嗯，由你决定。¤Okay, it's up to you to decide.
只见那魔修一声暴喝，一道精纯的魔气夹杂了厉啸之声向你突袭而来！¤I saw that the demonic cultivator shouted loudly, and a pure magic qi mixed with the sound of a sharp howl rushed towards you!
葛白衣显然是在护宗大阵上打开个通道之前，就已经知道山脚处战后获胜的是你与炎萧二人，见到你们并没有太惊讶。¤Ge Baiyi obviously knew before opening a passage on the protective array that you and Yan Xiao had won the battle at the foot of the mountain. He wasn't too surprised to see the two of you.
本就倾斜的胜利天平，此刻更是急转直下。¤The victory scale, which was already tilted, is now plummeting downward.
这么说完，他转身便离去了。¤Having said that, he turned around and left.
真是个奇怪的人...¤What a strange person...
焦飞的脸上闪过一丝厌恶的神色。¤There was a hint of disgust on Jiao Fei's face.
他们...必须死。¤They... must die.
小伤，无妨。¤Little wound, it's okay.
这两人与你实力相仿，{$daoyou}下次还是应该谨慎一些。今日若非我也在此，你恐怕会受重伤啊。¤These two individuals have similar strength as you, {$daoyou}. You should be more cautious next time. If I wasn't here today, you would have likely been seriously injured.
焦飞。¤Jiao Fei.
呼...{$daoyou}，你没事吧？¤Hey...{$daoyou}, are you okay?
但见他硬接一爪后，左手抓住那名禾山道修士的手腕，右手凝聚一团火球正中那人胸口。那人正面受此重伤，眼看是活不成了。¤But when he saw him take a claw, he grabbed the wrist of the mt. harvest sect cultivator with his left hand and condensed a fireball with his right hand, hitting the man in the chest. The man was seriously injured and couldn't survive.
今日...多谢。¤Today... thank you.
{$daoyou}，你没事吧？¤Friend, are you okay?
我名叫{FirstName}{LastName}，不知道友怎么称呼？¤My name is {FirstName}{LastName}, I don't know how to address you, fellow daoist?
我调查村民失踪一案一路追查至此，这两个禾山道修士看来便是此案的始作俑者。¤I have been investigating the case of the disappearance of the villagers and traced it all the way here. These two Mt. Harvest Sect cultivators seem to be the culprits behind this case.
焦兄的脾气还真是奇怪...¤Brother Jiao's temper is really strange...
你见状不妙，也顾不上许多，扭头便跑。¤You see the situation is bad, don't care about much, turn around and run.
你抬眼看向{$jiaofei}，只见他招式大开大合，全然不顾自身安危，将那名禾山道修士压制的节节败退。¤You looked up to {$jiaofei}, only to see him constantly attacking without caring for his own safety, suppressing the Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator and forcing him to retreat.
多谢道友出手相助，若非道友仗义出手，在下恐怕今日便要殒命于此。¤Thank you fellow daoist for helping me out. If it wasn't for your timely assistance, I'm afraid I would have perished today.
道友的救命之恩无以为报，这些灵石还请道友不要拒绝。¤The gratitude for a fellow daoist's life-saving kindness cannot be repaid, so please do not refuse these spirit stones, fellow daoist.
哼，不自量力。¤Hmph, overestimating one's own abilities.
哼，怎么又来一个。¤Hmph, why is another one coming.
你猜测这些失踪的凡人应该是被禾山道的邪修，施展炼魂的邪术所伤。¤You speculate that these missing mortals were likely injured by the evil cultivation practitioners of the Mt. Harvest Sect who have used their dark arts of Soul Refinement.
正准备仔细观察一番洞府外的禁制，却只听一声巨响，一名红袍修士驱使着数道天火砸向那座洞府，瞬间便将外围的禁制悉数毁去。¤Just as I was about to carefully observe the restrictions outside the cave, I heard a loud noise and saw a red-robed cultivator commanding several flames of heaven to strike the cave, instantly destroying all of the outer restrictions.
{$daoyou}，我调查村民失踪一案一路追查至此。你若不介意的话，我们一同出手如何？¤{$Daoyou}, I have been investigating the case of the missing villagers and have traced it all the way here. If you don't mind, would you like to join forces with me?
你们离火门的长老我确实不敢惹，不过一个区区{$jingjie}的弟子，也敢三番两次与我们禾山道作对？¤I truly dare not provoke the elders of the Fire Gate Sect, but a disciple of mere {$jingjie} rank dares to go against us, the Mt. Harvest Sect, time and time again?
顺着这股阴冷的气息一路追踪过去，你很快便来到一处隐蔽的洞府外。¤Following this cold and dark aura all the way, you soon arrive at a secluded cave outside.
另一名禾山修士见状不妙，转身便要逃...¤Another cultivator from Mt. Harvest saw the situation was not good and turned around to escape...
他可不是一个人。¤He's not alone.
桀桀桀...那就送你们两个一起上路吧。¤Hehehe... Then let me send you two on your way together.
{$jiaofei}微微向你点头致意，随即便施展神通攻了上去。¤{$jiaofei} nodded slightly towards you as a gesture of acknowledgement, then immediately used their divine skill to launch an attack.
{$jiaofei}面色阴郁，似乎对眼前之人颇为厌恶。也未与那二人多言，冷哼一声便施展神通攻了上去。¤The expression on {$jiaofei}'s face was gloomy and seemed to show disgust towards the person in front of them. Without saying much to the two people, they hmph-ed and unleashed their divine skill to attack.
真是晦气，怎么又是这厮？¤What bad luck, why is it this guy again?
这两名禾山道的修士看来与那名红袍修士修为相当，你决定...¤These two cultivators from Mt. Harvest Sect seem to have similar cultivation levels as that red-robed cultivator, you decide...
桀桀桀...既然你不自量力一个人送上门来，那我可就不客气了。¤Hehehe...since you came knocking on my door all on your own and overestimating your abilities, I won't be polite.
是他？¤Is it him?
呃啊...¤Oh no...
他虽说以一敌二，但招招皆是不顾自身危险，以命搏命的打法。反观那禾山道的二人心有顾虑，一时之间竟被压制的节节败退。¤Although he was outnumbered, every move he made was a reckless gamble with his own life, fighting with everything he had. On the other hand, the two from Mt. Harvest Sect were hesitant and gradually retreated under the pressure.
道友，对于休息阵法可感兴趣？¤Fellow Daoist, interested in resting Array?
接着他又连掐法印，召出一簇森冷的黑色灵焰，转瞬间将那蓬莎岛修士的尸体烧得连灰都不剩。¤Then he quickly formed hand seals and summoned a cluster of densely cold black Spiritual Flames, instantly incinerating the body of that Pongsha Island Cultivator until nothing remained but ashes.
住...住手！别打了，我认输！¤Stop...stop! Don't hit me anymore, I admit defeat!
这般手段，饶是以你如今修为看来依旧感到诡异可怖，简直与你之前遇到的魔门修士不相上下。¤Such methods, even with your current cultivation level, still appear strange and terrifying. They are no different from the demonic cultivators you have encountered before.
你不动声色，敛息潜伏在一旁。那千流岛的修士似乎怀揣着什么保护神识的法宝，抵御着蓬莎岛修士的垂死反扑。没过多久，那名蓬莎岛修士终于耗尽真气，失去了灵气护罩的保护，被袖箭捅了个对穿。¤You silently lurked nearby, restraining yourself. The cultivator from Myriad Rivers Island seemed to be carrying some artifact to protect their soul sense, resisting the dying struggle of the Pongsha Island cultivator. After a short while, the Pongsha Island cultivator finally ran out of true energy, lost the protection of their spiritual energy shield, and was pierced through by the sleeve arrow.
他的手法看起来颇为娴熟，轻轻松松便抹去了储物袋外留下的神念。那储物袋外灵光大现，但没挣扎几下便迅速黯淡了下来，落到地上。¤His technique looked quite skilled as he easily wiped away the divine thoughts left outside the storage pouch. The spiritual light outside the storage pouch shone brightly, but faded quickly without much struggle and fell to the ground.
从他们二人的衣着与招式，你判断他们分别是蓬莎岛和千流岛的修士。¤From their attire and techniques, you can determine that they are cultivators respectively from Pongsha Island and Myriad Rivers Island.
你循着交战声走近，远远地便看到有两名修士正驱使着各种法宝打得不可开交。¤You approach the sound of the battle, from afar you can see two cultivators using various artifacts to fight fiercely.
那人似乎很谨慎，用神识四下探查了一番，这才开始检查那名蓬莎岛修士的尸体。索性你于敛息一道颇有心得，没有被他发现。¤That person seems very cautious, using their soul sense to investigate the surroundings before beginning to inspect the body of the Pongsha Island cultivator. Fortunately, with your experience in restraint, you were not discovered by him.
你不想被卷入这场莫名的战斗中，连忙退走，找了一个隐蔽的角落敛息躲下。直到交战声慢慢消失才离开此地。¤You don't want to be involved in this inexplicable combat, so you quickly retreat and find a secluded corner to restrain yourself and hide. You only leave when the sound of the fighting gradually fades away.
此人所修术法深不可测，你也没有必胜的把握，只能眼睁睁看着他处理完现场，而后采下仙草扬长而去。¤The cultivation technique of this person is unfathomable. You have no certainty of victory and can only watch as he handles the situation and then departs with the immortal herbs.
还未等你反应过来，便感到一道冰冷的气息扫过，令你汗毛直立。下一秒，那柄袖箭便破空向你刺来...¤Before you could react, you felt a cold breath sweep past you, making your hairs stand on end. The next second, that sleeve arrow broke through the sky and stabbed towards you...
只要你放我走，这洞窟里的月灵花就全归你了，我绝对不会再有任何想法！¤As long as you let me go, all the moonspirit blossoms in this cave will be yours, I definitely won't have any more thoughts!
那名千流岛的修士看来已是金丹后期修为，驱使的法宝上下翻飞，连续不断地攻击在蓬莎岛修士那已经摇摇欲坠的灵气护罩上。¤That cultivator from Myriad Rivers Island seems to have a late golden core cultivation level, utilizing their artifact to continuously strike against the shaky spiritual energy shield of the Pongsha Island cultivator.
而那名蓬莎岛修士虽然还能够勉力支撑，但显然已经完全没有了还手的余力。¤But that Pongsha Island cultivator, although still able to barely support himself, obviously had no strength left to fight back.
那蓬莎岛修士又惊又恼，眼看便要命陨于此...{w}{w=0.5}¤The cultivator from Pongsha Island was both shocked and infuriated, fearing that their life would end here...{w}{w=0.5}
道友小心！¤Fellow daoist, be careful!
那千流岛修士却仿佛没有听到似的，依旧面不改色地操控着法宝向对方攻去。¤The cultivator from Myriad Rivers Island, however, seemed to not have heard and continued to control the artifact to attack the opponent without changing his expression.
前方传来一阵激烈的交战声，看来是有什么人在此处发生了争斗...{w}{w=0.5}¤There was a fierce sound of battle up ahead, it seemed that someone was engaged in a fight here...{w}{w=0.5}
你到底想怎样，难道非要斩尽杀绝？¤What exactly do you want? Do you have to exterminate everything?
你实力不足，自身难保，也再顾不得别人，只能匆匆逃离了此地。¤Your strength is not enough, you can't even protect yourself, let alone others. You can only hurriedly flee from this place.
《魔焰决》是我派开山祖师所创秘术，修炼速度甚至比一些地阶功法更快，但每练一层，都会折损修炼之人大量的寿元。¤is a secret art created by the founder of our school, with a cultivation speed even faster than some earthly-ranked techniques, but for each level of cultivation, it will cost a significant amount of lifespan for the practitioner.
{shidi}初来乍到，作为师兄我便私下赠与你一些火晶，你可小心切莫被长老知晓。¤As a senior brother, I will give you some fire crystals in secret since you're new here. Be careful not to let the elders find out. {shidi}
本派入门功法有《引火决》，《化焰决》和《魔焰决》，你想学习哪一个？¤Our sect's introductory techniques include the 《Setting Fire Technique》, the 《Living Flame Technique》, and the 《Demonic Flame Technique》. Which one would you like to learn?
宗门广场上的{color=#d0380a}告示{/color}栏每隔一段时间会发放宗门任务，{shidi}完成任务后便可获得火晶。¤On the clan plaza's {color=#d0380a}notice{/color} board, quests are posted every once in a while, and upon completion, a member of the clan can gain fire crystals.
这几种功法类型各有优劣，你也可以同时兼修多个不同的功法，但我建议你把修炼速度最快的功法，作为你的{color=#d0380a}主修功法{/color}¤These types of techniques each have their own strengths and weaknesses. You can also cultivate multiple different techniques at the same time, but I recommend that you use the technique with the fastest cultivation speed as your primary cultivation technique.
《引火决》是战斗类的功法，修炼后能够提升五行连击后火系法门的威能。¤《Setting Fire Technique》 is a cultivation technique for combat purposes, which, when practiced, can enhance the power of fire-based techniques used after a combo strike of the five elements.
哈哈，宗门内的资源可不能用灵石换取，只有对宗门做出贡献的弟子才有资格在藏经阁与神兵阁兑换功法及法器，而这火晶正是弟子们贡献度的体现。¤Haha, the resources within the clan cannot be exchanged with spirit stones. Only disciples who have made contributions to the clan are eligible to exchange techniques and magic tools in the hidden manual pavilion and divine warrior pavilion. And this fire crystal is the embodiment of disciples' contribution points.
...嗯，这几本就差不多了...{shidi}之前对修炼的功法可有了解？¤Mm, these should be enough... Did {shidi} have any understanding of cultivation techniques before?
《化焰决》是中庸类的功法，修炼后便能快速在战斗中进入【化焰】状态，反击对手的攻击。¤The Living Flame Technique is a moderate type of cultivation technique. After practicing it, one can quickly enter the Living Flame status in combat and counterattack the opponent's strikes.
一般同阶的功法可以分为几种类型，战斗类的功法可以在与人斗法时提供更强的帮助，修炼类的功法则在修炼速度上有很大的优势，而中庸型的功法则都能兼顾的到。¤Generally speaking, techniques at the same level can be classified into several types. Combat techniques can provide greater assistance in battle, while cultivation techniques have significant advantages in cultivation speed. And there are also techniques that strike a balance between the two.
往年都只有宗门最厉害的几位师兄，才敢到天魔眼的{color=#d0380a}中心区域{/color}猎魔。¤In the past, only the senior brothers who were the strongest in the clan dared to hunt demons in the central area of the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
多谢师兄¤Thank you, senior brother.
哟，是新来的小{shidi}。你等着，我去帮你挑上几本适合你修炼的功法来。¤Hey, it's the new junior apprentice. Wait here, I'll help you choose a few suitable cultivation techniques.
此事就交给我吧。¤Leave it to me.
长老有何吩咐？{w}{w=0.5}¤Elder, what are your orders?
{shidi}，之前托你办得事情完成的怎么样了？¤{shidi}, how did the task I entrusted to you go?
既然如此，那我便另寻他人吧。¤Since that's the case, then I will find someone else.
宗门{$renwu}¤Clan {$renwu}
{Firstname}长老，您这段时间的宗门俸禄一共是{$TempValue}灵石。¤Elder {Firstname}, your total clan allowance during this time is {$TempValue} spirit stones.
{shidi}，你这段时间的宗门俸禄一共是{$TempValue}灵石。¤{shidi}, your total clan allowance for this period is {$TempValue} spirit stones.
宗门暂时没有什么需要你办的事。¤The clan currently doesn't need you to take care of anything.
很好，此事就拜托{shidi}你了，还请{shidi}务必抓紧时间。¤Very well, I entrust this matter to you, {shidi}, please make sure to act quickly.
作为完成任务的奖励，{shidi}可以获得{$jiangli}。¤As a reward for completing quests, {shidi} can gain {$jiangli}.
{shidi}想接取哪方面的任务？{w}{w=0.5}¤{shidi}, which type of quest do you want to accept?{w}{w=0.5}
见过师祖，您这段时间的宗门俸禄一共是{$TempValue}灵石。¤I have seen the master, your total clan allowance during this period is {$TempValue} spirit stones.
嗯，不错，不错...¤Ah, not bad, not bad...
师祖有何吩咐？{w}{w=0.5}¤What are the instructions from the Master? {w}{w=0.5}
我还有些其他事情要办，此事还是交给其他人吧。¤I still have some other things to do, so let someone else take care of this matter.
林沐雪回来后，虽是对王登的不辞而别有些疑惑，但也没有多问什么。¤After Lin Muxue returned, although she had some doubts about Wang Deng's parting without saying goodbye, she didn't ask too much.
你随手将之挂在腰间，就当是王登此前口无遮拦的代价。之后便是继续品茶赏花等林沐雪回来。¤You casually hang it around your waist, as the price for Wang Deng's earlier reckless talk. Afterwards, you continue to enjoy your tea and flowers while waiting for Lin Muxue to come back.
你与林沐雪闲聊一段时间后，便是尽兴离去。且在告辞时，与对方互在传音符中留下神识印记，留作以后交流用。¤After chatting with Lin Muxue for a while, you leave feeling satisfied. Before saying goodbye, you both leave a mark of your Soul Sense in the Sound Talisman, for future communication.
王登不敢再说什么，只得狼狈地离去了。你留意到一个储物袋静静地躺在地上，可能是刚才战斗时从王登身上掉落的。¤Wang Deng didn't dare to say anything more, so he had to leave in a sorry state. You noticed a storage pouch lying quietly on the ground, possibly dropped from Wang Deng during the previous combat.
数招过后，你以神通击破王登防御，对方也是面色惨白地跌坐在地。¤After a few moves, you broke through Wang Deng's defense with your divine skill, causing him to fall to the ground with a pale face.
你虽是不服，但也无可奈何，只能忍气吞声。¤Although you are unwilling, you have no choice but to swallow your pride and endure.
林沐雪显示是猜到了什么，但也只好在送你出府后一番道歉。¤Lin Muxue seemed to have guessed something, but could only apologize to you after seeing you off from the mansion.
算你狠，下次再见到，有你好看！¤You're ruthless. Next time I see you, you'll be sorry!
看来星宫的秘术也不怎么样嘛。¤It seems like the secret arts of Star Palace aren't that great.
面对你的挑衅，王登没有再说什么，只是趁着林沐雪还未归来，狼狈离去了。¤Facing your provocation, Wang Deng said nothing more and left in embarrassment while Lin Muxue had not yet returned.
你留意到一个储物袋静静地躺在地上，可能是刚才战斗时从王登身上掉落的。¤You notice a storage pouch quietly lying on the ground, possibly dropped from Wang Deng during the combat just now.
这点实力就不要学别人放狠话了，小心咬了舌头。¤Don't try to talk tough based on this little bit of strength, or you might end up biting your tongue.
待林沐雪回来后，你也是起身向她告辞离去，后者虽然是猜到了什么，但也只好在一番道歉后送你出府。¤After waiting for Lin Muxue to return, you also got up and bid farewell to her before leaving. Although the latter guessed what was going on, she could only apologize and see you off after a while.
王登正想再说些什么，可林沐雪适时带着茶具回到花园，他只好闭口不言。¤Wang Deng was about to say something else, but Lin Muxue timely returned to the garden with the tea set, so he had no choice but to keep silent.
哼，小妮子嘴上...¤Humph, this little girl on her mouth...
哼，以后长点记性，别往你配不上的人身边凑。¤Hmph, in the future, remember to stay away from people you can't match.
你虽是不服，但也无可奈何。也不愿再与此人交流，于是找了个借口准备先行离去。¤Although you are unwilling, there is nothing you can do. You also don't want to communicate with this person again, so you found an excuse to leave first.
当众人基本兑换完毕，纷纷离开之时，阁主从后方叫住了你。¤When everyone had finished exchanging their goods and left, the sect master called you over from behind.
{FirstName}道友，按照大比规则，夺得魁首之人将获得一次参悟太虚境的机会。¤{FirstName} fellow daoist, according to the rules of the grand competition, the person who gains the first place will receive an opportunity to comprehend the great void dimension.
阁下这边请吧。¤Please come this way, sir.
最近，寨主在和他们大护法研究以蛊虫入丹也不知到进度怎么样，真成了咱们古月寨也不用再偏安一隅了。¤Recently, the village leader has been studying with their chief protector on the progress of using Gu worms for dan making. If successful, our Gu Yue village won't have to be secluded anymore.
切，要不是寨主念及同门之情，这玄古门如何能在宁州立足？要我说他们趁早并入我们古月寨才是正道～¤Hmph, if it weren't for the sect leader considering our friendship as fellow disciples, how could the Profound Ancient Sect establish itself in Ningzhou? In my opinion, they should merge with our Gu Yue Clan sooner rather than later to follow the right path~
哈哈哈，说邪门能比得过咱们古月寨？不过，他们这丹药后劲太大了，听说有个傻子过于冒进，连服三颗差点没给丹毒带走。¤Hahaha, who can compete with our Gu Yue tribe when it comes to mysterious things? However, the after-effects of these pills are too strong. I heard that a fool who acted recklessly almost died from pill poison after taking three pills.
你倒是乐观，此事本就是以玄古门为主到时候咱们能分得几成好处还是两说。¤You are optimistic, but the outcome of this matter depends on how much benefit we can gain from the profound ancient sect.
前面有两个巡逻弟子，看装束好像是古月寨弟子。¤There are two patrolling disciples ahead, dressed in a way that suggests they are disciples of the Dark Moon Outpost.
嘴上留情啊，继续巡山吧。¤Be merciful with your words, continue patrolling the mountain.
要说这玄古门也有几分门道啊。他们这炼丹之法看着邪性，这丹药效果却也真的不错嘛。¤The profound ancient sect indeed has some tricks up their sleeve. Despite the seemingly unorthodox methods they use in alchemy, the pills they produce actually have good effects.
哈哈哈，{FirstName}{shidi}，恭喜你又一次拿到宗门大比的魁首。¤Hahaha, {FirstName}{shidi}, congratulations on winning once again as the champion of the clan competitions.
咳咳...{shidi}出手不凡，是我输了。¤Cough cough... {shidi} is exceptional in his skills, I have lost.
道友此前说有要事找我，不知是何事？¤Fellow daoist, you previously mentioned that you had something important to discuss with me. What is it?
嗯，确是如此。¤Mm, that's right.
所以我费尽心思探访{$CaiLiaoName}的消息。虽是有所收获，但，凡是奇珍所在必有危险相伴，{$CaiLiaoName}所在亦是如此。¤So I went to great lengths to seek information about {$CaiLiaoName}. Though I did find some, it is always the case that where there are rare treasures, danger also follows, and this holds true for {$CaiLiaoName} as well.
唉，{$NickName}莫要嘲弄我了，被击碎了法宝谁能看的开，只是重新炼制一个合适的法宝傍身于我而言更紧要罢了。¤Ah, don't mock me, {$NickName}. It's difficult to accept the shattering of my artifact, but it's more crucial for me to craft a new suitable artifact to accompany me.
呃，这倒不是。¤Uh, that's not it.
所以我也没放在心上，便当做是没听到。¤So I didn't take it to heart and treated it as if I hadn't heard it.
NPC类型出错¤Error in NPC Type.
我虽心有不甘，但也只是想找他好好理论理论。¤Although I am reluctant in my heart, I just want to talk to him and reason with him.
不愿也罢，我另想办法吧。¤I don't want to do it, I'll figure out another way.
感谢你能前来，{FirstName}{$NickName}。¤Thank you for coming, {FirstName}{$NickName}.
既然{FirstName}{$NickName}无暇前往，那{$ZaiXia}也就不多叨扰{$NickName}了。¤Since {FirstName}{$NickName} is busy and unable to attend, {$ZaiXia} won't trouble {$NickName} any further.
也正因如此，{$ZiaXia}不知同辈中除{FirstName}{$NickName}外还有谁能轻易解决金丹期妖王。¤Therefore, {$ZiaXia} doesn't know who among their peers besides {FirstName}{$NickName} can easily solve the Golden Core stage demon king.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，感谢你能受{$ZaiXia}之邀前来。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, thank you for accepting the invitation to come {$ZaiXia}.
我本就无意争斗，以后提放着些便是。¤I never intended to fight, so let it be in the future.
这倒不是。¤This is not.
唉，此事说来话长，还请{$NickName}听我从头道来。¤Ah, this is a long story. I ask that {$NickName} please listen to me from the beginning.
事情是这样的，半月前有一修士缠着我想切磋，我实在拒绝不了他，只好接受。却没想切磋开始后，他却一口咬定我的法宝是赝品，当场便激动起来。¤half a month ago, a cultivator approached me wanting to duel, and I could not refuse him, so I accepted. However, I did not expect that once the duel began, he accused my artifact of being a fake and became agitated on the spot.
后来我费劲心思{$CaiLiaoName}的消息。虽是有所收获，但，凡是奇珍所在必有危险相伴，{$CaiLiaoName}所在亦是如此。¤Later, I went to great lengths to gather information about {$CaiLiaoName}. Though I did make some progress, I learned that wherever there are rare treasures, danger is sure to follow, and the same held true for {$CaiLiaoName}.
所以想请{FirstName}{$NickName}代我前往取得{$CaiLiaoName}。这妖王实力十分强劲，但相对的它身上的皮、骨、妖丹等都是稀有炼器材料，放在平日也是难寻得很。¤Therefore, I would like to ask {FirstName}{$NickName} to retrieve the {$CaiLiaoName} for me. This Demon King is incredibly powerful, but on the other hand, its skin, bones, Demon Core, etc., are all rare materials for refining, which are hard to come by even on normal days.
此处正是一金丹期妖王的巢穴，若是放在平时我倒不惧它，但如今法宝被击碎，只剩备用法宝傍身，恐难敌之。¤Here is the lair of a Golden Core stage Demon King. In normal circumstances, I wouldn't be afraid of it, but now my artifact has been destroyed, and I only have a backup artifact on me. I fear it will be difficult to face this opponent.
找{FirstName}{$NickName}来只是想让你帮我搜集材料好重新打造一个法宝而已。¤I just wanted to find {FirstName}{$NickName} to ask for help in collecting materials to rebuild an artifact.
当时我也是一愣，竟没想起与他理论。这修士也是鸡贼的很，竟趁我愣神的功夫扬长而去。¤At that time, I was also stunned and didn't think to argue with him. This cultivator was also very cunning, and took advantage of me being stunned to quickly leave.
却没想那人在切磋时对着我的法宝屡下重手，最后不知是用什么剑诀将我那法宝对半斩开。¤But I didn't expect that person to use heavy hands against my artifact during the duel and ended up using some sword technique to cut my artifact in half.
唉，那法宝确实是仿制了我所仰慕前辈的作品。但我不过是出于对前辈的尊敬，法宝又是自己所用并未拿去招摇撞骗，怎么能算赝品呢？{$NickName}你说是不是？¤Ah, that artifact is indeed a replica of the work admired by my senior. But I only made it out of respect for my senior, and I didn't use it to deceive or cheat anyone. How can it be considered a fake? What do you think, {$NickName}?
(这场面怎么似曾相识？）¤(How come this situation feels familiar?)
若是事成，我只需{$CaiLiaoName}，其他材料尽归{FirstName}{$NickName}所有。除此之外，另有谢礼奉上。¤If the task is accomplished, I only need the materials, and all other materials will be owned by {FirstName}{$NickName}. Besides, a reward will be presented as well.
说完，{$NpcName}便独自离去了。¤After speaking, {$NpcName} left alone.
那{$CaiLiaoName}便在...¤That {$CaiLiaoName} was then...
那你找我来是？¤What did you come to find me for?
我虽心有不甘，但当务之急还是重新炼制一个合适的法宝傍身更要紧。¤Although I am unwilling, the immediate priority is still to refine a suitable artifact to accompany me.
所以我最近一直在寻找{$CaiLiaoName}的消息，最近才有收获。只是那{$CaiLiaoName}所在之地乃是金丹期妖王的巢穴。¤Therefore, I have been searching for news about {$CaiLiaoName} lately, and I have recently received some information. However, the place where {$CaiLiaoName} is located is the lair of a demon king in the golden core realm.
但说无妨。¤But it doesn't matter.
若是平时我可不惧他，但如今我法宝被击碎，只剩备用法宝傍身，怕不是那孽畜的对手，就想请你帮我摆平那妖王并取得{$CaiLiaoName}。¤If it were an ordinary day, I wouldn't fear him. But now that my artifact has been shattered and I only have a backup artifact with me, I'm afraid I won't be a match for that monster. I want to ask you to help me deal with the demon king and obtain the {$CaiLiaoName}.
事情是这样的，半月前有人想与我切磋一番，眼看他十分热情，我也不好拒绝，只得应肯。却没成想我亮出法宝后，他却硬说我的法宝是赝品，当时便激动了起来。¤The situation is like this, half a month ago someone wanted to have a duel with me. Seeing that he was very enthusiastic, I couldn't refuse and had to agree. But unexpectedly, after I revealed my artifact, he insisted that my artifact was fake, which made me very angry at the time.
赝品？¤Forgery?
道友倒也看得开。¤Fellow daoist can also see things clearly.
道友不用客气。¤Fellow daoist, no need to be polite.
我那法宝可不是什么赝品，但...确实是在外形和能力上仿制了我所仰慕前辈的作品。但我不过向他学习而已，这法宝也是自己所用，并未拿去招摇撞骗，怎么能算赝品呢？{$NickName}你说是不是？¤My artifact is not a fake, but...it's true that its appearance and abilities were copied from the works of the senior I admire. But I only learned from him, and this artifact is used by myself. It's not used to deceive others, so how could it be considered a fake? What do you think, {$NickName}?
找我何事？¤What do you want with me?
{FirstName}{$NickName}若是得手，我只取所需的{$CaiLiaoName}，其他材料尽归{FirstName}{$NickName}所有。除此之外，另有谢礼奉上。¤If {FirstName}{$NickName} succeeds, I will only take the necessary materials {$CaiLiaoName}, and all other materials will belong to {FirstName}{$NickName}. In addition, there will be a reward offered.
多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}，有你出手，那{$ZaiXia}便放心了。¤Thank you {FirstName}{$NickName}, with you taking action, {the following situation} can be at ease.
还不是之前跟人切磋被打碎了法宝。打碎也就算了，还诋毁说我法宝是赝品，你说气不气人？¤Previously, my artifact was shattered during a duel. Not only was it broken, but my opponent also slandered me saying that my artifact was a fake. Can you imagine how angry I was?
{$Xiao},我就知道找你准没问题。¤Xiao, I knew I could count on you to be reliable.
我虽然不是受了气还无动于衷的类型，但报复还要找人帮忙也不是我的风格，只有自己来才解气。¤Although I am not the type to remain indifferent when wronged, seeking help to exact revenge is not my style. The only way for me to find satisfaction is to rely on myself.
{FirstName}{$NickName} ，你终于来了。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, you have finally arrived.
唉，此事说来丢脸，但还请{$NickName}听我从头道来¤.
哈哈哈哈，现在才想起求饶，是不是太晚了些。就区区这般实力，也敢与我相斗，简直不自量力。¤Hahaha, you only remember to beg for mercy now. Isn't it a bit too late? With such meager strength, you dare to fight with me. It's simply overestimating yourself.
你循着交战声走近，远远地便看到有两名修士正驱使着各种法宝打得不可开交。但显然，其中一方已经占尽上风，另一方则只能苦苦支撑，高下立判。¤As you approach the sound of battle, you can see from a distance that there are two cultivators driving various artifacts in an intense fight. However, it is clear that one side already has the upper hand while the other can only hold on desperately, the outcome already decided.
住...住手！阁下不过是想些身外之物，在下双手奉上便是，阁下又何必非要赶尽杀绝！¤Stop...stop! You are just seeking things outside of your body. I will offer them to you with both hands. Why do you need to be so extreme!
你不想被卷入这场莫名的战斗中，连忙退走，找了一个隐蔽的角落敛息躲下。直到交战声慢慢消失才离开此地...¤You don't want to be involved in this inexplicable combat, so you quickly retreat and find a hidden corner to restrain yourself and hide. It's only until the sound of fighting slowly fades away that you leave this place...
对方衡量了一番，最终还是离开了。¤The other party weighed the situation and ultimately left.
一道极具攻击性的神识扫过，显然，你被什么人给盯上了...¤A highly offensive soul sense swept by, obviously indicating that you have been targeted by someone...
前方传来一阵剧烈的灵气波动与打斗声。显然，有什么人正在附近交手...¤A violent wave of spiritual energy fluctuations and fighting sounds came from ahead. Obviously, someone was fighting nearby...
那名散修又惊又恼，眼看便要命陨于此。你决定...¤The independent cultivator was both shocked and annoyed, and he was about to perish in this situation. You decide...
桀桀桀...算你识相。¤Hehehe... You know when to be obedient.
你斩下巨蟒硕大的蛇头，数十丈长的蛇身在寒潭中翻滚搅动，染红了一池潭水...¤You beheaded the giant boa, its dozens of zhang-long body writhing and churning in the freezing pool, dyeing the entire pond red...
很好，辛苦你了，这是任务奖励。我还有宗门事务在身，恕不远送。¤Very good, you worked hard, this is the quest reward. I still have clan matters to attend to, so I won't see you off.
遇到过 有人潜入，不过已经被我击毙了。¤I have encountered someone who sneaked in, but I have already killed them.
{shidi}，你先下去养伤吧。我还有宗门事务在身，恕不远送。¤{shidi}, you should go down and rest to recuperate. I still have clan matters to attend to, so I will not see you off.
我{SayStcVal=928}盛名在外，自然没有宵小之辈出没。¤I {SayStcVal=928} am well-known, so naturally there are no small fry lurking around.
我还有宗门事务在身，恕不远送。¤I still have clan matters on hand and cannot send you far away.
{shidi}，此番值守可有异常？¤{shidi}, is there anything unusual about this duty?
多是些吸纳了些灵气的野兽，灵智不清，哼，竟对我{SayStcVal=928}门下出手，看来执事堂又要着手清扫一下{SayStcVal=943}了，¤Mostly they're wild beasts that have absorbed some spiritual energy, with unclear spiritual wisdom. Hmph. They even dared to attack my disciples {SayStcVal=928}. It seems like the Deacon's Hall has to clean up again {SayStcVal=943}.
任务完成，前来复命。¤Mission complete, reporting for orders.
哦？连示警都没有，这是我山门守备的失职啊，我会吩咐下去加强戒备的，这枚丹药算是我个人的补偿了。¤Oh? Without even a warning signal, this is a neglect of duty by our mountain gate patrol. I will give orders to strengthen our guard and compensate you with this pill.
多是些吸纳了些灵气的野兽，灵智不清，哼，竟对我{SayStcVal=928}门下出手，{shidi}你也算是协助执事堂清扫了{SayStcVal=943}，这枚丹药算是我个人的酬谢了。¤Mostly they are wild beasts that have absorbed some spiritual energy, their spiritual wisdom is not clear. Hmph. They unexpectedly attacked my {SayStcVal=928} disciples, {shidi} you have also assisted the deacon's hall in cleaning up {SayStcVal=943}, this pill counts as my personal thanks.
我{SayStcVal=928}盛名在外，自然没有宵小之辈出没，不过倒是遇到了了妖兽作祟。¤I {SayStcVal=928} am well-known, so naturally there are no insignificant people around. However, I have encountered a spirit beast causing trouble.
{shidi}，被发现的时候就已经昏迷了，潜入的宵小之辈已被长老擒住，你不必担心，只是{shidi}你还需勤加修炼。¤{shidi}, when found, was already unconscious. The petty criminals that infiltrated have been captured by the Elder. You don't have to worry, but {shidi}, you still need to diligently cultivate.
我遭受妖兽突袭，慌乱之下不是其敌手，所以....¤I was attacked by a spirit beast and was not its match in panic, so...
{shidi}，这么早就回来了？¤Junior, you're back so early?
9005，妖兽巢穴1¤9005, spirit beast lair 1
正当你思索问题所在之时，异变陡生。¤Just as you were pondering the problem, a sudden change occurred.
片刻后，随着笑声的消散，裂缝的弥合，仿佛一切都归于了平静。¤After a moment, as the laughter dissipated and the cracks closed, everything seemed to return to calm.
既然李司魂他们都已殒命当场，那逆天造化术应该就在附近，不妨帮我搜索一番吧。¤Since Li Soul and the others have already perished on the spot, the Defying Good Fortune technique should be nearby. Can you help me search for it?
荧儿，没事吧？¤Yinger, are you okay?
结局已尘埃落定，你再如何感叹也是无用。¤The ending has been settled, no matter how much you lament, it is useless.
玉简上面记载，重铸肉身需要借助飞升之人所引动的仙灵之气，可刚刚何曾有仙灵之气降下？¤On the jade slip it is recorded that to rebuild the physical body, one needs to borrow the immortal spirit energy triggered by someone who has ascended. But has there ever been immortal spirit energy descending?
嗯？哪里不对？¤Hmm? What's wrong?
就在你用神识仔细阅读玉简时，异变陡生。¤Just as you were carefully reading the jade slip using your soul sense, an unexpected change suddenly occurred.
神识扫去，只见她身形异常狼狈，身体肉眼可见的有几处缺口，其中阴气正向外逸散。¤When I scanned with my soul sense, I saw that her body was extremely battered, with several visible wounds, and Yin Qi was escaping outward.
……不对。¤... No.
这…难道说她失败了？¤Did she fail?
她竟然真的飞升成功了…？简直难以置信…¤Did she really succeed in ascension...? It's almost unbelievable...
哪里出问题了？¤What went wrong?
你又等了一会，月亮上黑影退去，天地间阴气又回归到了往常的水平。¤You waited for a while again, the black shadow on the moon retreated, and the gloomy air in the world returned to its usual level.
这阴魂岛仿佛什么都没有发生过一般，若不是亲眼见证了这一切，你定会以为这原本便是座空岛。¤This Ghost Island seems as if nothing has ever happened here. If you were not a witness to all of this, you would think that this was originally an empty island.
听了你的话后，她猛然一怔，随即又莫名暴怒起来，不由分说地向你攻来。¤After hearing your words, she suddenly shuddered, then inexplicably became enraged, attacking you without saying a word.
你觉得自己应该替她感到开心才对，却不知为何有些落寞。¤You should feel happy for her, but you feel a little lonely.
她眼神呆滞，不停地自言自语着。你有些担心她的状况，便飞了过去。¤Her eyes were dull and she kept talking to herself. You were a little worried about her condition, so you flew over.
你且看看，玉简上面记载，重铸肉身需要借助飞升之人所引动的仙灵之气，可刚刚何曾有仙灵之气降下？¤Take a look at the jade slip. It says that in order to rebuild the physical body, one needs to harness the immortal spirit energy that is triggered by a person's ascension. But where has the immortal spirit energy descended from just now?
只见空间一阵波动，高空中撕开了一个极其不规整的空间裂口，一个黑影从中倒飞而出。¤Only saw the space fluctuate for a moment, a highly irregular spatial rift tore open in the high sky, and a black shadow tumbled out from it.
我明明感应到了才对？¤I clearly sensed it, right?
为什么会找不到？？¤Why can't it be found?
你来到之前李司魂所在阵法周围，果然找到了一枚刻有“逆天造化术”的玉简。¤Before you arrived, you found a jade slip engraved with Defying Good Fortune near the array where Lee Soul was located.
有这等事？¤Is there such a thing?
的确…可刚刚那一幕又如何解释？¤Indeed… but how do you explain what just happened?
可惜没能早点得到此术，不然你今日便能重获新生了。¤Unfortunately, you weren't able to obtain this skill earlier, otherwise you would have regained a new life today.
这天劫的威能，当真不可小觑。¤The power of this heavenly tribulation is truly not to be underestimated.
当年与道友切磋论道之场景，尚历历在目。未曾想，道友如今却是领先我一步了。¤The scene of dueling and debating with my fellow daoist from back then is still vivid in my mind. I never imagined that my fellow daoist would now be one step ahead of me.
不错的灵力，这嗜焰蟒绝非普通的筑基期妖兽实力，要小心应对！¤Good spiritual power, this flame eating boa is definitely not a normal foundation building spirit beast strength, be careful in dealing with it!
一名{SayStcVal=928}的巡逻弟子从前方经过，但因为修为太低，并没有发现你的存在。¤A {SayStcVal=928} patrol disciple passed by from the front, but did not notice your existence because their cultivation level was too low.
势力上传出现错误¤An error occurred during the data upload.
一名宗门的巡逻弟子经过，恭敬的向你行礼。¤A member of the clan's patrolling disciple passed by and respectfully saluted to you.
一名宗门的巡逻弟子从前方经过，向你点头示意。¤A disciple of the clan on patrol passes by and nods to you in acknowledgement.
站住！此地{SayStcVal=928}所属，闲杂人等速速离去！¤Stop! This is {SayStcVal=928} territory, all unrelated people should quickly get out of the way!
这功法名叫《忘忧决》，是我偶然所得，虽然只是残本，但误打误撞之下，也让我参悟出了大半奥秘，便在与人交战时快速恢复消耗的灵气。¤This technique is called 《Forgetfulness Decision》, which I accidentally recovered. Although it is only a fragment, I stumbled upon a great part of its mysteries and can quickly recover my lost spiritual energy during battles.
老夫尚有重要之事未完成，现在也该去办了，{xiaozi}，你我便就此别过，日后有缘再见吧！¤{xiaozi}, I still have important matters to attend to. It's time for me to go. Let's part ways here and meet again in the future if fate allows it!
这件法宝唤作御灵盾，是少有的防御性法器，你若熟练使用，炼气同阶之内的战斗，可保你性命无忧。¤This artifact is called Spirit Shield, a rare defensive magic tool. If you are proficient in using it, it can ensure your safety in combat with those who have the same level of Qi refining.
（呼~这天邪子看来是邪道中人我还是回白帝楼汇报一下吧 。）¤(Ah~ This heavenly devil seems to be someone from the evil path, I should go back to report to the White Emperor Pavilion.)
你此番帮了老夫，老夫自会兑现自己的承诺。这些年我游历天下，收集了不少功法秘籍，丹药法宝，你想要什么，尽管说来。¤If you help me this time, I will fulfill my promise. Over the years, I have traveled the world and collected many technique manuals, pills, and artifacts. Whatever you want, feel free to ask for it.
哈哈哈哈，没想到天邪子机关算尽，最后却在你这个炼气{xiaozi}的手下殒了命，真是时也，命也！¤Hahaha, I didn't expect that the Heavenly Devil would plot everything in advance, but in the end died in the hands of a Qi Refining {xiaozi}. Truly, it's a matter of timing and fate!
你如今才炼气修为，药力过猛的丹药也不适合你。这三颗养气丹，虽然只是二品丹药，也可帮你精进修为。¤You are currently at the qi refining cultivation stage, and medicinal pills with excessive potency are not suitable for you. These three lesser qi pills may only be second grade pills, however, they can also help you improve and enhance your cultivation.
多亏前辈的蛊术精湛，我才能侥幸取胜。¤Thanks to senior's superb Gu techniques, I was able to narrowly win.
如今天邪子道陨，算是除去了老夫的心头一患。你修为虽浅，但心智品性却和老夫年轻时有几番相像，日后若有机缘，也该有一番成就。¤Now that the Heavenly Devil path has fallen, it can be considered as removing an affliction from my heart. Although your cultivation is shallow, your intellect and character are somewhat similar to mine when I was young. If there is an opportunity in the future, you should also have some accomplishments.
好了，就是这里。¤Alright, this is it.
在渡劫之前我还需调息一番。{shidi}可愿意代我前去与诸位道友打个招呼？¤Before crossing the tribulation, I need to adjust my breath. {shidi}, would you be willing to go in my place and greet our fellow daoists?
你与白帝二人从广陵城出发，一路飞至北宁海。不多时，混元子的声音穿过厚重的雷云传到你耳边。¤You and White Emperor departed from Guangling City and flew straight to North Ning Sea. Soon, the voice of Primordial Child came through the thick thunderclouds and reached your ears.
不多时，混元子的声音穿过厚重的雷云传到你耳边。¤Before long, the voice of the Primordial Child passed through the thick lightning clouds and reached your ears.
这里的灵气...¤The spiritual energy here...
循声而望，隐约可见一片岛屿，想必他便是在其中某座岛上，只是不知与之对饮的修士是哪位。¤Looking in the direction of the sound, a faintly visible island can be seen. Presumably, he is on one of the islands, but it is unclear which cultivator he is meeting with.
果然如你所推测，白鹿真人独自依靠在一旁的树上，混元子则与化为人形的火麒麟饮酒攀谈。¤As you had speculated, the Paragon White Deer was standing alone, leaning on a nearby tree, while the Primordial Child was drinking and conversing with the human-formed Fire Qilin.
{size=31}“来来来,喝酒喝酒。”{/size}¤{size=31}Come, come, let's drink.{/size}
但白帝也就邀请了宁州的几位化神修士，白鹿为人孤僻，星凝又不像是能跟混元子聊得来的样子，应当是明山散人或火麒麟没错了。¤But White Emperor also invited several deity transformation cultivators from Ningzhou. White Deer is reclusive, and Xing Ning doesn't seem to be able to chat with Primordial Child. It should be Ming Mountain Scatterer or Fire Kirin.
我曾于此有过一些机缘，在此之后这片岛屿便一直保持现在的状态。也有个几百年了，不知为何竟未被周遭海域同化。¤I once had some fortunate encounters here, and since then this island has maintained its current status. It has been several hundred years, yet for some reason it has not been assimilated by the surrounding seas.
你一边胡思乱想着，一边在白帝的带领下来到混元子面前。¤As you were lost in thought, you followed White Emperor to the presence of Primordial Child.
这片岛屿的灵气与此海域其余地方相比，少了一份狂暴，却有些稀薄。¤The spiritual energy of this island is less violent compared to other areas in this sea, but it is somewhat sparse.
好，交给我吧。¤Alright, leave it to me.
正当你和白帝交流着，明山散人也降落到这座小岛上。朝白帝点了点头后便是加入了在一旁吃喝的二人组。¤Just as you were conversing with White Emperor, Ming Mountain Scatterer also landed on this small island. After nodding towards White Emperor, he joined the duo who were eating and drinking on the side.
铁剑又一次从你的背后挣脱出来，飞至半空之中，绽开绚烂的红光。周围的魔气汇聚于此，围绕着剑身上下翻腾！¤The iron sword once again broke free from your back, flying into the air and blooming with brilliant red light. The surrounding magic qi gathered here, swirling around the sword!
那你的记忆呢？你有想起来些什么么？¤And your memory? Did you remember anything?
再加上它刚刚吸收的这些魔气...这肯定不是普通的法宝能够做到的...¤Plus the magic qi it just absorbed... this is definitely not something a normal artifact can achieve...
它刚刚吸收完魔气，应该就已经提升了一个档次了，就连我都觉得自己的魂魄又壮大了几分。想来若是有足够的魔气作为补充，它是有自行恢复的能力的。¤It just absorbed magic qi and should have already upgraded a level. Even I feel that my soul has grown stronger. If there is enough magic qi to supplement it, it has the ability to recover on its own.
不错...不错...¤Not bad...Not bad...
片刻之后，魔气消散，铁剑又哐当一声落在了地上。你运足灵气将铁剑吸回，却差点一把抓空！吸收了魔气的铁剑虽然外表没有明显的变化，重量却几乎变重了数倍...¤After a moment, the magic qi dissipated and the iron sword fell with a clang to the ground. You used your spiritual energy to retrieve the sword, but nearly missed it! Although the iron sword that absorbed the magic qi did not have any obvious changes in appearance, its weight had increased several times...
铁剑居然对这里的魔气也有反应...魏老头，你说这柄剑不会是什么魔剑吧？¤The iron sword actually has a reaction to the magic qi here... Old Wei, could this sword possibly be a demon sword?
魏无极沉默了半晌，应该是在回忆着什么...¤Wei Wuji remained silent for a while, presumably recalling something...
一般来说，元婴期修士的魂魄，如果找不到新的躯体夺舍，百年之内就会消散。我能在这柄剑中沉睡一千多年，本就说明了这剑并非凡品。¤Generally speaking, if a nascent soul stage cultivator's soul cannot find a new body to possess, it will dissipate within a hundred years. The fact that I was able to sleep within this sword for over a thousand years already proves that it is not an ordinary weapon.
刚刚的异动也许会吸引到其他人的注意，总之还是先离开这里再说吧。¤The recent anomaly may attract others' attention, let's leave here first and talk later.
确实有一些零星的回忆闪过，虽然还不是非常清晰...¤There are indeed some scattered memories flashing by, although they are not very clear yet...
我能感受到剑中的力量又强大了几分，看来这天魔眼也是你的一次机遇。¤I can feel the power within the sword has increased, it seems that the Heavenly Devil's Eye is also an opportunity for you.
铁剑突然振动了起来，将魔物周身翻涌的魔气不断吸入。那魔物才被你重创，没能挣扎几下，就彻底消失不见了。¤The iron sword suddenly vibrated and continuously absorbed the magic qi surging around the spirit beast. The spirit beast was heavily injured by you and struggled briefly before disappearing completely.
这破剑...怎么会？¤This broken sword... how could it be?
锈渍铁剑突然从你的背后挣脱出来，飞至半空之中，红光大盛，将魔物周身翻涌的魔气不断吸入。那魔才被你重创，没能挣扎几下，就彻底消失不见了。¤The rusted iron sword suddenly broke free from your back, flew into the air, and emitted a bright red light. It continuously absorbed the magic qi surging around the spirit beast's body. The spirit beast, which was critically injured by you, didn't struggle for long before disappearing completely.
你真的没动什么手脚？我觉得这剑吸了魔气以后不仅在抖，还沉了许多......我腰都快压折了。¤Did you really not do anything? I feel like after this sword absorbed some magic qi, not only is it trembling, it's also become much heavier... My waist is almost breaking.
原来如此，我早该想到的...¤So that's how it is, I should have thought of it earlier...
你背后的铁剑微微颤抖，发出一道清脆的剑鸣之声，又将刚刚倒下的魔物吸食了个干净。你感到铁剑的似乎也重了几分...¤The iron sword behind your back trembles slightly, making a clear sword sound, and then it absorbs the fallen demon beast completely. You feel like the iron sword has become a little heavier...
仙剑也好，魔剑也罢，能为你所用的便是好剑。¤Whether it's a magic sword or a divine sword, a good sword is one that can be of use to you.
它又进阶了...如今这柄剑的威能已经不弱于一般的法宝。但我能感觉到它还有更大的潜力！¤It has advanced again...Now the power of this sword is no weaker than a general artifact. But I can feel that it still has greater potential!
怎么这次变重了这么多？¤Why is it so much heavier this time?
你这{xiaozi}身娇体弱的，法宝重些不是常事？我能感觉到这柄剑内的能量又强大了不少，说不定再过不久就能够再度进阶了！¤Little one, with your delicate body, carrying a heavy artifact is not a common thing, right? I can feel that the energy within this sword has increased significantly. Maybe in a short while, it will be able to advance again!
呼...好险，这些魔物真难缠。¤Phew... that was close, these spirit beasts are really tough. 
没想到这锈渍斑驳，看着普普通通的破剑居然还颇有来头。老头，有啥办法能让这剑重新恢复成纯阳法宝么？¤I didn't expect this rusty and mottled sword to have such a background despite its ordinary appearance. Old man, is there any way to recover this sword into a pure yang magic weapon?
只见一{SayStcVal=929}向你袭来。¤You see a {SayStcVal=929} approaching you.
吼！！！¤Roar!!!
尽头之处传来阵阵腥风，看来有妖兽在此地筑巢。¤At the end, bursts of bloody wind were coming, it seems that there are spirit beasts building their nests here.
竟有此事！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Such a thing unexpectedly happened!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
当时他啊，别说忘了施展神通攻击，甚至忘了驱使遁术。¤At that time, he forgot not only to use divine skills to attack, but also to use mobility techniques.
兴许是吧...¤Perhaps...
连？¤Lian?
老头，你怎么一副伤感的样子？¤Old man, why do you have such a mournful look?
好吧。不过在出发之前，我这还有要事要向师兄汇报，倪兄帮我转告一番吧。\n¤Okay. However, before departing, I still have some important matters to report to my senior brother. Can you help me pass the message to him, Nie Xiong?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，之前给你发的传音符消息怎么一直没回我呢？这么久没消息，还以为你是闭死关了。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, why haven't you replied to the sound talisman message I sent you earlier? I haven't heard from you in so long, I was afraid you had closed your cultivation.
不过此次及时阻止了魔道妖人的计划，且天魔道元婴修士损失不少，短时间内应当是再难作什么妖。¤However, this timely intervention stopped the demonic plans, and the nascent soul cultivators of the Heavenly Demon Cult suffered great losses. They should not be able to cause any more trouble in the short term.
沿路进入好几个阵法后，倪旭欣带你进入到一间静室之中。¤After entering several arrays along the way, Ni Xuxin leads you into a quiet room.
是因为诛仙剑的影响么？¤Is it because of the influence of the Immortal Sword?
阴冥三海的灵魂体可能知道些消息么...¤Would the soul body of the three Yin and Ming Seas possibly know any information...
你简单的向倪旭欣叙述了事发经过和结局后，后者也是陷入沉思中。¤After you explained the incident and the outcome in a simple way to Ni Xuxin, the latter also fell into deep thought.
所以只能让{FirstName}{xiongdi}去那边跑一趟，试试能否获得更多信息，甚至成功复活魏前辈了。¤Therefore, we can only send {FirstName}{xiongdi} to go over there and see if they can gain more information, or even successfully revive Senior Wei.
没想到师兄号称九州第一剑仙，竟还有如此窘迫的时候。¤I didn't expect my senior brother, who is known as the number one sword immortal of the Nine Provinces, to be in such a desperate situation.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}是在海上发现了什么吗？¤Has {FirstName} found anything on the sea, {xiongdi}?
越过鳞次栉比的武陵城各类建筑，你和炎萧径直向白帝楼而去。¤Passing through the various buildings of Wuling City with their intricate and spectacular scales, you and Yan Xiao head straight towards White Emperor Pavilion.
见你一脸严肃，倪旭欣也没再说什么，只是在等你继续。¤Seeing your serious expression, Ni Xuxin didn't say anything more, just waited for you to continue.
上次南崖城一别后，我奉命前往天魔眼探查是否有异状。但在过程中，与炎萧道友遭到天魔教袭击，后续又在天魔眼破解后者释放其中魔物的计划。¤After parting ways with you in South Cliff City last time, I was ordered to investigate if there were any anomalies in the Heavenly Devil's Eye. However, during the process, fellow daoist Yan Xiao and I were attacked by the Heavenly Demon Cult, and later on, we discovered their plan to release the spirit beasts trapped inside the Heavenly Devil's Eye after deciphering it.
炎萧也没说什么只是点头表示同意。倪旭欣见状便招呼附近的执事为炎萧带路去密室修养。自己则带着你向反方向走去。¤Yan Xiao didn't say anything, just nodded to express agreement. Ni Xuxin saw this and called over a nearby servant to lead Yan Xiao to the secret chamber for cultivation. Meanwhile, you followed Ni Xuxin in the opposite direction.
欸，我还没说你怎么就知道了？我还努力保持严肃试图神秘点呢...¤Hey, I didn't even say it yet, how did you know? I was still trying to maintain a serious and mysterious demeanor...
轩儿如今的实力是不同往日了，但...连他自己都说另一处更为危险，我又怎放得下心呢...¤Xuan'er's current strength is different from the past, but... even he himself said that another place is even more dangerous, so how can I let go of my heart...
但...这还未谋面，又要置轩儿于险地...唉...¤But... we have not met yet, and now we have to put Xuan'er in danger... sigh...
老夫第一次见到轩儿的时候，他不过是个顽童罢了，整天拿着把木剑到处惹是生非。¤The first time I met Xuan'er, he was just a mischievous child, always causing trouble with a wooden sword in hand.
结果误以为自己碰到阴冥蟒，让一条普通的大黑蟒吓到，还被被追了好久。¤Resulting in mistaking it for a Yinming Python, being scared by a ordinary big black python, and being chased for a long time.
想到了些以前的事...¤Remembered some old things...
魏无极声音渐微，一句话说完终于是没有回应了。¤Wei Wuji's voice gradually faded, and after saying these words, there was finally no response.
我这两年遵师祖嘱托一直坐镇在白帝楼中，大小事务都有过目，却从未听闻有天魔道的异动。¤For the past two years, I have been abiding by the instructions of my master and have remained stationed at the White Emperor Pavilion. I have overseen all matters, but I have never heard of any unusual activity from the Heavenly Demon Cult.
是的，据师祖去年传来的消息所言，他老人家确实找到了些复活之术的眉头。¤Yes, according to the news that was passed down by the master last year, he did find some clues about the technique of resurrection.
唉，我当然高兴。但为了帮我重塑肉身而冒险，不值得。¤Ah, of course I'm happy. But risking it all to help me reshape my physical body is not worth it.
我会尽早向师祖汇报的。¤I will report back to my master as soon as possible.
在这破剑中呆着也没啥不好...¤There's nothing wrong with staying in this broken sword...
是关于复活魏老的事么？¤Is it about resurrecting Old Wei?
师祖之前交代此事万不可外泄，所以只得带{FirstName}{xiongdi}来此处了。¤Master instructed that this matter must not be leaked, so I had to bring {FirstName} here with me.
所以师兄是有什么新的发现？¤So, Senior Brother, do you have any new discoveries?
一进入白帝楼大门便看到最中心处倪家少爷正在向白帝楼某位执事安排着什么。当然，倪旭欣也适时看到你们俩，如蒙大赦一般，他挥手赶开了执事，急忙走向你。¤Upon entering the entrance of the White Emperor Pavilion, you immediately see the young master of the Ni family arranging something with a certain steward of the White Emperor Pavilion at the center. Of course, Ni Xuxin also noticed the both of you at the right time and, like granting amnesty, he waved his hand to dismiss the steward and quickly walked towards you.
嗯，但玄道宗那边...唉...¤Well, but over at the Xuan Dao Sect...sigh...
其中有两个师祖认为比较靠谱，于是自己先沿着线索追寻可能比较危险的那个，而另一个则打算交给你前往探查。¤Two masters believed it to be more reliable, so they followed the clues to pursue the possibly more dangerous one themselves, while the other one intends to send you to investigate.
唔，好像..就这么多了吧？¤Hmm, I think that's about it?
唉，轩儿那孩子...¤Alas, Xuan'er that child...
呵，最有意思的还是轩儿练气初期的时候，刚学会些功法便自觉实力强大，于是带着老夫送他的木剑法宝想要出门显摆一番。¤Ha, the most interesting thing is when Xuan'er was in the early stage of cultivation, he felt strong after learning some techniques, so he took the wooden sword artifact given by the old man and wanted to show off outside.
但在过程中，与炎萧道友遭到天魔教袭击，后续又在天魔眼破解后者释放其中魔物的计划。¤But in the process, he was attacked by the Heavenly Demon Cult along with fellow daoist Yan Xiao, and later discovered a plot to release spirit beasts through deciphering the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
哈哈哈，岂止如此。连...¤Hahaha, it's much more than that. Even...
嗯，那我就先行离开去做准备了。¤Well, then I'll leave first to make some preparations.
我这两年遵师祖嘱托一直坐镇在白帝楼中，怎会从未听闻相关的消息！¤I have been stationed in the White Emperor Pavilion for the past two years, following the instructions of my master. How could I have never heard any relevant news?
而且{FirstName}{xiongdi}不是经常在海上活动么，所以根据我的推理嘛，大概率就是这样咯...欸，不对么？¤And {FirstName} brothers, you guys usually operate on the ocean, right? So based on my deduction, it's highly likely to be the case... oh, am I wrong?
唉...可惜那时的记忆...如今...只剩下些碎片了。¤Alas... Unfortunately, the memories from that time... now... only remain as fragmented pieces.
轩儿如今的实力是不同往日了，但...我又怎放得下心呢...¤Xuaner's current strength is not the same as before, but... how can I let go of my heart...
上次南崖城一别后，我奉命前往天魔眼探查是否有异状。¤After parting ways with South Cliff City last time, I was ordered to go to Heavenly Devil's Eye to investigate if there were any abnormalities.
不过师祖获得的相关消息也不是太多，只知道传说阴冥海那边有灵魂体出现，这几片海域中更是曾有修士提到过灵魂体复活之法，可惜流传不广，其中信息更是佚失很多。¤Unfortunately, the information that the Ancestor gained is not too much, only knowing that there are soul bodies appearing in the Deep Yin Sea according to legend. Amongst these sea areas, some cultivators have mentioned the method of soul body resurrection, but it is a pity that it is not widely spread and much of the information is missing.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，之前给你发的传音符消息怎么一直没回我呢？若不是知道你实力强大，还以为你出什么事了。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, why haven't you replied to the sound talisman message I sent you earlier? If I didn't know how strong you are, I would have thought something happened to you.
倪旭欣显然是认为玄道宗遭难有自己的一部分责任，没有继续这个话题。¤Ni Xuxin obviously believes that the Xuan Dao Sect's misfortune is partly his responsibility and does not continue discussing the topic.
（这一路尽是些遮蔽气息屏蔽神识的阵法，看来倪兄要说的事并非不重要，只是...）¤(This whole journey was filled with formations that obscure one's aura and block one's soul sense. It seems that what Brother Ni wants to talk about is not unimportant, but...)
好吧，那我休息几日便出海前往阴冥海。¤Okay, then I will rest for a few days before heading to the Deep Yin Sea.
不完全是，为何这么问？¤Not completely, why do you ask?
只是没想到老夫竟有如此福分，本以为余生也就与这破剑为伴了，却还能在千百年后听到自己大弟子的消息。¤Just didn't expect that I would have such blessings. I thought I would spend the rest of my life with this broken sword, but I can still hear news from my eldest disciple after thousands of years.
唔，倒也没那么重要。炎道友貌似受伤不浅，还是先给你找间密室调养一番吧。¤Well, it's not that important. Fellow Daoist Yan seems to be injured quite badly, so let's first find a secret chamber for you to recuperate.
魏无极一句话没说完，却是沉默了半晌。¤Wei Wuji didn't finish his sentence, but remained silent for a while.
我近几年大部分时间都呆在这白帝楼中听执事的各种汇报嘛，但只是有些平平无奇的小事，都快无聊死了。所以当然不会是跟宁州有关咯。¤In recent years, I have spent most of my time in this White Emperor Pavilion listening to the stewards' various reports, but they were just ordinary and boring small matters. So of course, it has nothing to do with Ningzhou. I won't be involved with it.
我看炎萧道友似乎受伤不浅，如果没什么要事，不如在白帝楼调养一番再离去。¤I see that Fellow Daoist Yan Xiao seems to be quite injured. If there's nothing urgent, why not rest and recover at the White Emperor Pavilion before leaving?
到了，我们就在这说吧。¤Let's talk here when we arrive.
所谓重剑无锋，大巧不工，镇元剑仙一门的《奔雷决》正是我派重剑流的代表功法，传承亦有数千年，对敌时往往能够蓄势以待，后发制人。¤The so-called heavy sword without a sharp edge is a skill that is ingenious but not laborious. The Thundering Sky Technique of the Swordmaster Zhenyuan is a representative technique of our Heavy Sword School, which has been passed down for thousands of years. When facing an enemy, it often gathers momentum to strike first and gain the upper hand.
龙阳上人的独门功法唤作《金刚炼体决》，对敌时体内灵气会自动形成灵气护盾保护自身，非常实用。¤The unique technique of Venerable Dragon Light is called 《Golden Diamond Body Refinement Technique》, which automatically forms a spiritual shield within the body to protect oneself during combat, making it very practical.
好，从今日起你就是我门下的记名弟子了，这件七星剑法器就当作为师给你的见面礼了。希望以后你能勤修仙道，不要弱了我的名头！¤Okay, from this day forward you are my registered disciple. This seven star sword magic tool will serve as my gift to you. I hope that in the future you will diligently cultivate the path of immortality and not tarnish my reputation.
这些下等魔短期内虽然不足为虑，但若是放任不管，也会带来不少祸端。因此，我们各大门派约定俗成，每隔三十年会打开一次天魔眼外的禁制，令门内弟子前去清缴。¤The inferior demons may not be a concern in the short term, but if left unchecked, they can cause a lot of trouble. Therefore, our sects have agreed to open the seal outside the Heavenly Devil's Eye every thirty years and send our disciples to eliminate them.
明河剑仙乃我派大长老，修为已达元婴期。他的独门功法《神剑决》在整个宁州也是独树一帜，对敌时一往无前，不以剑气伤人，但凡出手皆是杀招。¤Swordmaster Radiant River is our sect's Grand Elder, who has already reached the Nascent Soul stage in cultivation. His unique technique, 《God Sword Decree》, is unparalleled in the entire Ningzhou region, allowing him to fearlessly confront enemies without relying on sword qi to harm them. Any action he takes is a fatal strike.
只见一{SayStcVal=929}向你扑来。¤You see a {SayStcVal=929} charging towards you.
远处一团火焰，飞速靠近。¤In the distance, a flame quickly approached.
麟尊大人回来了？¤Did Lord Linzun come back?
（一脸无奈的看着对方）¤(Looking at the other party with a helpless expression)
那徒弟只能恭喜您啦。¤That disciple can only congratulate you.
徒儿为师回来啦~¤Disciple, the master has returned~
说罢，一行人并做一道遁光直入麟庙。¤After speaking, the group of people turned into a light and flew straight into the Lin Temple.
这个....哈哈哈，先回家，先回家~¤This... hahaha, let's go home first, let's go home~
嗯~都散了吧。¤Uh~ Disperse now.
不对，他老人家不是一直在闭关准备....？¤Isn't he always cultivating in seclusion to prepare...?
抬眼望去，半空中漂浮着一人。¤Looking up, there was a person floating in mid-air.
噤声，掌门来了。¤Silence, the master is here.
绝焰堂的前辈？这可不多见呢。¤Senior of the Jue Yan Hall? This is not often seen.
确实，我上次也是在执行麟庙相关的任务之时侥幸遇到，钟长老还指点了我几句。¤Indeed, I also coincidentally encountered Elder Zhong while carrying out Lin Temple-related quests last time, and he gave me some guidance.
啊~~懂了。那近些年辛苦师兄了。¤Ah~~ I understand. Senior brother has worked hard in recent years.
弟子钟焰，恭迎师尊归来。¤Disciple Zhong Yan respectfully welcomes Master's return.
众人：“弟子，恭迎麟尊。”¤Everyone: Disciples, respectfully welcome the respected Lin.
炎师弟，你莫要取笑我了，哪有那么容易？¤Junior Yan, don't make fun of me. It's not that easy, you know?
孤陋寡闻了吧，这位是绝焰堂大长老，钟焰长老。¤Please forgive my ignorance, this is the grand elder of the Absolute Flame Hall, Elder Zhong Yan.
今天，是家师归来之日。¤Today is the day of the master's return.
哈哈哈，为师可是有不少收获呢。¤Hahaha, Master has gained quite a bit.
这位前辈是谁啊？¤Who is this senior?
钟师兄，怎么今天这么有兴致啊。可是修为又有精进？¤Senior brother Zhong, why are you so interested today? Did your cultivation improve again?
若是心境不稳，便会被这煞气侵蚀内心，需得多多注意。¤If one's mental state is unstable, they will be eroded by this evil aura, one must be very cautious.
如此看来...此魔物似乎是以煞气结成，与天魔眼中的魔物又有所不同。¤It seems that this demon beast is formed by killing qi, and is different from the demon beasts in the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
与这魔物对敌之时晕眩感甚是强烈，这到底是什么东西？¤During the fight against this demonic creature, the daze sensation is particularly strong. What exactly is this thing?
{shidi}，这功法没有绝对的好坏之分，只看是否合适。我建议你在成为内门弟子，拜入我派长老门下以后，再根据你学到的功法，来藏经阁挑选能够搭配上的秘籍。¤{shidi}, this technique doesn't have an absolute good or bad, it just depends on whether it suits you. I suggest that after becoming an inner disciple and joining the elder's disciples, you can choose the secret manuals in the hidden manual pavilion that match the techniques you learn.
有一些问题想向师兄请教。¤I have some questions I want to learn from my senior brother.
{shidi}初来乍到，作为师兄我便私下赠与你一些沧元丹，你可小心切莫被长老知晓。¤As a senior brother, I will privately give you some Cang Yuan Dan as a welcoming gift, {shidi}. Please be careful not to let the elder find out.
哈哈，宗门内的资源可不能用灵石换取，只有对宗门做出贡献的弟子才有资格在藏经阁与神兵阁兑换功法及法器，而这沧元丹正是弟子们贡献度的体现。¤Haha, the resources within the clan can't be exchanged for spirit stones. Only disciples who have made contributions to the clan are qualified to exchange techniques and magic tools in the Hidden Manual Pavilion and Divine Warrior Pavilion. And this Cang Yuan Dan is a reflection of the disciples' contribution.
门派内大部分的基础法术和功法都可以请教传功长老，若是你成为内门弟子，拜入我派任意一名长老门下，自然也能够学到这一脉的所有法术和功法。¤Most of the basic spells and techniques within the sect can be learned from the instructor elders. If you become an inner disciple and join under any elder, you will naturally be able to learn all of the spells and techniques within this lineage.
{shidi}，有什么事么？¤{shidi}, is there something you need?
见过师叔。¤Hello senior master.
见过{shixiong}。¤I have seen {shixiong}.
宗门广场上的{color=#d0380a}告示{/color}栏每隔一段时间会发放宗门任务，{shidi}完成任务后便可获得沧元丹。¤The notice board on the sect plaza distributes clan missions at regular intervals. By completing these quests, a member of the clan can gain cang yuan dan.
上次那场是我肚子疼，做不得数。¤The last time was because of my stomachache, and I couldn't handle it.
来来来，陪你倪爷爷过上两招。¤Come, come, come, let me teach you Ni Grandpa's two moves.
不知何时，一道矮小的人影出现在这邪教妖人的背后。¤I do not know when, a small figure appeared behind this cult demon.
也不知这位前辈为何助我，算了，我还是速速回宗门汇报吧。¤I don't know why this senior helped me. Anyway, I should quickly return to the clan and report.
掌控一方空间，这是化神修士方有的手段。¤Controlling a certain space, this is a method only cultivators who have undergone deity transformation possess.
呦，传送符不错嘛~¤Hey, the teleportation talisman is pretty good~
行了，人我带走了，你回去复命吧。¤Okay, I'll take the person away. You go back and report back.
嗯，我还是速速回宗门汇报吧。¤Mm, I should quickly return to the clan to report.
你{xiaozi}怎么这么菜啊？都金丹了连个元婴都打不过，还要麻烦我老人家。¤{xiaozi}, why are you so weak? You've already reached the golden core stage but can't even defeat a nascent soul. You're really a bother to this old man.
小心。{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Be careful. {vpunch=10,0.5}
对方手掐法诀一柄飞剑直刺你而来，之后就捏碎一块玉符引起一阵空间扭曲。¤The opponent quickly formed a hand seal, sending a flying sword straight towards you. Afterward, they crushed a piece of jade talisman, causing a spatial distortion.
之后这方空间仿若凝固一般，不仅那传送符的空间波动消散了，飞剑更是定在空中。¤Afterwards, this space seemed to solidify, not only did the spatial fluctuations of the transmission symbol disappear, but the flying sword was also fixed in midair.
这古神教也是看得起你了，竟然出动了元婴修士。不过你这一路上独来独往却也能被这人盯上，此事看来也不简单啊。¤This ancient god sect really looks up to you, as they actually sent a nascent soul cultivator after you. However, the fact that you were able to attract the attention of this person despite traveling alone means that this situation is not easy.
看招！！¤Watch my move!!
巧了，我也想问你几个问题。¤Coincidentally, I also have a few questions to ask you.
嘿嘿，咱有缘再见。¤Hey hey, we'll meet again if we're meant to.
来人还顺手收取了空中的飞剑。¤The person also conveniently collected the flying sword in the air.
你能感觉暗中有一道神识一直关注此地，不过在你击毙了这邪教妖人就撤去了。¤You can feel a soul sense secretly observing this place, but it retreated after you killed this demonic person from the cult.
嘿嘿，{xiaozi}还是跟我走一趟吧，咱也不过是想问几个问题。¤Hey, {xiaozi}, why don't you come with me for a bit? I just want to ask you a few questions.
此地已被部下阵法，你左冲右撞难以拖出。¤This place has already been deployed with an array by my subordinates, making it difficult for you to escape by running around aimlessly.
浪方大圣体长愈千米，你被一股腐蚀性的灵气裹挟着吸入它的食道，拼尽全力也堪堪能抵挡肉身不被腐蚀。¤The body length of Great Sage Langfang is over a thousand kilometers, and you are carried into its esophagus by a corrosive spiritual energy, barely able to withstand the corrosion and prevent your physical body from being corroded.
“砰”的一声，你被震飞出去，撞上了浪方的胃壁，整个人都被吸附在上面，动弹不得。¤With a 'bang' sound, you were shaken and flew out, hitting Langfang's stomach wall, your entire body being stuck and unable to move.
小心，这些肉壁上的液体的腐蚀性很强，如果不及时运转灵气护体，你的肉身会很快被腐蚀烂掉！¤Be careful, the corrosiveness of the liquid on these flesh walls is very strong. If you don't activate your spiritual energy to protect your body in time, your flesh will quickly be corroded and decayed!
你将灵力汇聚于双眸之中，总算能在一片漆黑中看清自己所处的环境。这是一片巨大而空旷的空间，四周都是鲜红色的肉壁，散发着一股浓烈的腐蚀气味。¤You gather your spiritual power within your eyes, finally able to see your surroundings in the pitch blackness. This is a vast and empty space, surrounded by red flesh walls that emit a strong smell of corrosion.
残卷中，你赫然发现了一个写满有关火麒麟动向的玉简。¤In the remaining scroll, you suddenly discovered a jade slip filled with information about the movements of the Fire Qilin.
你瞬间反应过来，一招便彻底了结了他，¤You immediately react and one move completely ends him,
你将神识探入那受损的储物袋，希望在剩余的残卷中寻找到些许线索。¤You probe your soul sense into the damaged storage pouch, hoping to find some clues among the remaining scraps.
你又走上前去查看那名黑衣人的尸首，却只在他的腰间找到了一块黑色的令牌。¤You walked forward again to inspect the corpse of the black-robed person, but only found a black token around his waist.
眼见不是对手，他使出最后一丝灵力，烧向自己的储物袋。¤Seeing that he was not a match for his opponent, he used the last bit of his spiritual power and burned his storage pouch.
不好。¤Not good.
并且，这份记录竟从数百年前就开始了！¤And, this record actually began hundreds of years ago!
似乎是某种信物...总之，先收着吧。¤It seems to be some kind of token... Anyway, let's put it away for now.
从为火麒麟采购的药材，到向各路长老打听到的消息，麟庙周边灵气波动与变化。还详细地分析了火麒麟伤势恢复状况，渡劫的准备情况以及大致的飞升时间等问题。¤From the medicinal materials purchased for the Fire Qilin to the information obtained from various elders, there were fluctuations and changes in spiritual energy around Lin Temple. Detailed analysis was also carried out on the Fire Qilin's recovery from its injuries, preparations for tribulation, and approximate time of ascension, among other issues.
古神教竟然对火麒麟有所图谋…他们到底想做什么呢...¤The Ancient God Sect unexpectedly has designs on the Fire Qilin... What exactly do they intend to do?
此人所用应该是古神教的招式...只可惜这储物袋内的东西已经被烧的七七八八了…¤This person seems to be using techniques from the Ancient God Sect... Unfortunately, the things inside this storage pouch have already been burned to a crisp...
如我所料不错，你便是枯木老祖吧？¤As I expected, you must be Patriarch Deadwood, right?
这遁术着实诡异，你一时竟也追不上他，只得先跟了上去。¤This mobility technique is truly mysterious. You were unable to catch up with him for a moment and could only follow him for now.
对你的质问他并没有理会，反倒是使出了一种奇异的遁术，一路向{color=#d0380a}东{/color}跑了过去。¤He didn't pay attention to your questioning, but instead used a strange mobility technique and ran towards the {color=#d0380a}east{/color}.
久闻不如一见，想必你便是枯木师兄罢？¤Long time no see, you must be Senior Brother Deadwood?
哼，邪魔外道，不过如此。¤Hmph, evil and degenerate, just like that.
这魔道修士为何会出现在你的洞府里，是否应该给个解释？¤Why did this demonic cultivator appear in your cave? Shouldn't there be an explanation?
还没来得及缓过神来，一道人影慌忙逃出，奔向洞府的入口。¤Before he could collect himself, a figure rushed out frantically towards the entrance of the cave.
只是这魔道修士为何会出现在你的洞府里，是否应该给个解释再走？¤However, why did this demonic cultivator appear in your cave? Shouldn't they give an explanation before leaving?
这遁术虽快，但你要追上也并非难事。不过看他似乎还留有什么后手的样子，便决定先跟上去看看。¤Although this mobility technique is fast, it is not difficult to catch up if you want to. But seeing that he seems to have some tricks up his sleeve, I decided to follow him and see what he's up to.
魔道余孽，还想跑？¤A remaining devil cultivator, do you still want to run?
你不一会便追上了那人，但那人却穿着竹山宗长老的服饰，浑身上下也不见魔气的踪影，实力也只有金丹水准。¤You quickly catch up to that person, but they are wearing the bamboo mountain sect elder's costume, with no trace of magic qi on their body, and their strength is only at the level of golden core.
很多法器威力强大，代价却也不小。¤Many magic tools have strong power, but come at a high cost.
眼前是一处火山口，其上漂浮着一枚火红色的晶石。¤Before my eyes was a volcanic crater, on top of which floated a fiery red crystal.
破坏了会恢复....可以在一个空间感受到另一个空间的情况....基本对称的空间...难道？¤Destroyed will recover.... can feel the situation of another space in one space.... basically symmetrical space... is it possible?
你破除了阵法核心，却发现它闪耀了一会后，居然又恢复了原状。¤You broke the core of the array, but found that after it shimmered for a moment, it actually recovered its original state.
难道什么啊，{FirstName}{xiongdi}你快想想怎么办啊。¤What is it, {FirstName} brother, you need to think of a solution quickly.
好，{FirstName}{xiongdi}那我们快上吧。¤Okay, {FirstName} brothers, let's go quickly.
倪兄别急，我估计是两个核心要一起击破才行。看来我们要配合一下了。¤Brother Ni, don't worry. I estimate that we need to work together to break through two cores at once. It looks like we need to cooperate.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我这边的阵法核心怎么又恢复了？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, how did the core of the array recover again on my end?
咳咳...没想到这方壶山卧虎藏龙，先撤吧。¤Ahem...Didn't expect Fang Hu Mountain to have so many hidden talents, let's retreat for now.
本座来试试道友的手段。¤I have come to test the fellow daoist's skill.
此人是驻守此地的金丹长老，我若是胜了，也不要伤他性命，免得和竹山宗结下大仇。¤This person is the elder of the Golden Core who guards this place. If I win, I don't want to harm his life to avoid making a big enemy with the Bamboo Mountain Sect.
这{$name}据说是当年创立沂山派的老祖，早年间为躲避仇家去了海外，如今再回宁州后已有了元婴期修为。¤This {$name} is said to be the founder of Mt. Yi Sect. In his early years, he fled overseas to avoid enemies and has now returned to Ningzhou with nascent soul cultivation.
你要接取{$name}的悬赏？¤Do you want to take on the bounty for {$name}?
这{$name}在天魔道中也是极有威名的元婴长老，此番来宁州应该也是多有图谋。¤This {$name} is a very prestigious elder with a nascent soul in the Heavenly Demon Cult. His visit to Ningzhou must have some ulterior motives.
有何不妥？¤What's wrong?
接取此悬赏需要先支付{$yajin}灵石作为抵押，这个悬赏的最晚的完成期限是{$X}年，若在此期间内无法完成悬赏任务，这些灵石将不予退还。¤To accept this quest, you must first pay {$yajin} spirit stones as collateral. The latest deadline for completing this quest is {$X} years. If the quest cannot be completed within this period, the spirit stones will not be refunded.
总之，这{$level}阶悬赏以你的实力来说{$miaoshu}，确定要接取这个悬赏么？¤In short, this {$level}-ranked bounty is {$miaoshu} for your strength. Are you sure you want to accept this bounty?
琚运琦为一己私利谋害公孙璞长老，风雨楼必不饶他。¤Ju Yunqi schemed against Elder Gongsun Pu for his own selfish gain, Storm Manor will not spare him.
{$level}阶悬赏，目标是{$name}，以你的实力来说{$miaoshu}。确定要接取这个悬赏么？¤Are you sure you want to accept this {$level}th tier bounty? The target is {$name}, and given your strength, {$miaoshu}.
如今风雨楼中，无论以威望还是实力论，都没有比你更适合接取这个悬赏的人了。¤Currently in Storm Manor, there is no one more suitable than you in terms of both reputation and strength to take on this bounty.
确定要接取这个悬赏么？¤Are you sure you want to accept this bounty?
听灵儿所说，道友似是在寻找天道果，此物我虽然没有，但是这枯龙藤也有此效，此番就赠与道友了。¤Upon hearing Lingren's words, Fellow Daoist seems to be searching for Heavenly Dao Fruit. Although I do not possess it, this Dried Dragon Vine has similar effects and I shall gift it to Fellow Daoist.
这是万鳞甲？传闻中这是万千水族献出自身最坚硬的鳞片所制成的。¤Is this the Ten Thousand Scales Armor? It is rumored to be made from the toughest scales offered by the myriad of aquatic clans.
{FirstName}供奉飞升如此盛事，我龙族自然不会错过。届时我与敖灵定会前来为{FirstName}供奉护法。¤{FirstName} ascending to immortality is such a grand event, my Dragon Clan will certainly not miss it. At that time, both I and Ao Ling will definitely come to serve and protect {FirstName} as guest elders.
这是九玄大圣的传功龙鳞？¤Is this the dragon scale for transmitting knowledge from the Jiu Xuan Great Sage?
你将所见所闻与之相告，并归还了龙鳞。¤You inform them of what you have seen and heard, and give back the dragon scales.
道友此行可有新的发现？¤Fellow Daoist, did you make any new discoveries on this journey?
对了，这龙鳞的其中奥义等我龙族解析出来，就会由乾龙阁煮海长老分享给道友。¤By the way, once we, the Dragon Clan, decipher the secret meaning of these dragon scales, Elder Zhu Sea from the Dry Dragon Palace will share it with our fellow daoists.
九龙玺乃是龙皇象征在上古之战中遗失，道友帮我龙族寻回至宝，多谢道友了！¤The Nine Dragons Seal is a symbol of the Dragon Emperor lost in the ancient war. Fellow Daoist helped my Dragon Clan to retrieve this treasure. Thank you fellow Daoist!
你将所见所闻与之相告。¤You will tell them everything you see and hear.
嗯，我了解了。多谢道友。这几只龙皇果你就收下吧。¤Mm, I understand. Thank you fellow daoist. You can take these few sovereign drakefruits.
我个人为感谢道友，还略备一份薄礼。还望道友不要嫌弃。¤To show my gratitude to fellow daoist, I have prepared a small gift. I hope fellow daoist won't mind.
恕不远送。¤Apologies for not seeing you off.
多谢道友助我龙族寻回秘法，这株龙血草还望道友收下。¤Thank you fellow daoist for helping me find the secret technique of the dragon clan. Please accept this dragon blood grass as a token of my gratitude.
道友成为我龙族供奉之事，我龙族会告知各海阁下是我龙族的盟友。¤Fellow daoist becoming our dragon clan guest elder, our dragon clan will inform all sea pavilions that you are our ally.
不知道友可否愿意？¤I don't know if my fellow daoist is willing or not?
不论如何，道友帮我龙族寻回至宝不该说这丧气话，多谢道友了！¤Regardless, fellow daoist helping my dragon clan retrieve our treasure, I shouldn't be saying such disheartening words. Thank you very much, fellow daoist!
道友若是有了新想法可以随时来找我。¤Fellow Daoist, if you have any new ideas, you can come find me at any time.
以道友对我 龙族所做出的贡献，现在还不足以成为我龙族供奉。¤Based on the contribution that you, as a fellow daoist, have made to my dragon clan, it is not yet enough for you to become a guest elder of my dragon clan.
这龙血草就赠与道友了。¤Fellow Daoist, I shall gift this Dragon Blood Grass to you.
以道友对我龙族所做出的贡献，现在足以成为我龙族供奉了。¤With the contribution that Fellow Daoist has made to our Dragon Clan, it is now enough to become a Guest Elder of our Dragon Clan.
唉，现在我龙族没落再也没有万族来朝了。¤Ah, now my dragon clan has declined and there are no more of the ten thousand races coming to court.
白鹿师叔且慢，此番是晚辈们实力不济，若是能避免灭门的局面，还不劳烦您出面解决。¤Senior Bai Lu, please slow down. This time, we juniors are not strong enough. If we can avoid the situation of our sect being destroyed, we would like to trouble you to come forward and resolve it.
金虹剑派掌门见白鹿真人虽未答复，但也没有动手的架势，于是便转向你。¤The headmaster of the Radiant Sword Sect, seeing that Paragon White Deer did not reply and did not make any moves, turned to you.
不如，我大胆做主，借金虹秘传神通及功法与前辈一观。而前辈也只需放过金虹剑派一马即可。¤Let me take a bold decision and borrow the divine skill and technique of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect's secret teachings for senior to observe. And senior only needs to let the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect go.
即便是面对化神强者，即便是面对道的压迫，又何惧之有！¤Even if faced with a deity transformation expert, even if faced with the oppression of the Dao, what fear is there!
不如，我大胆做主，借金虹秘传神通及功法与前辈一观。而道友也只需事后转身离开即可，何必与冒险与白鹿师叔一战呢？¤Let me take the lead and borrow the golden rainbow secret divine skill and technique for senior to observe. Fellow daoist only needs to turn around and leave afterwards, why risk a battle with senior and Martial Uncle Bailu?
随着他的走近，你能感到自己的神识探查范围迅速缩小，外界的灵气也随之不再回应。这已然不是你所面对过的任何一种强者威压，而是来自这一方天地，或者说是来自道的极致压迫。¤As he approached, you could feel your soul sense quickly shrinking, and the spiritual energy outside no longer responded. This is not any kind of power suppression you have ever faced before, but rather an extreme oppression from this world or perhaps from the Way.
你正欲动手毁灭{$shili}山门时，却突然发现{$shili}广场上不知何时多了一人。¤As you were about to destroy the {$shili} mountain gate, you suddenly noticed that a person had appeared on the {$shili} square without knowing when.
师叔，前辈，且慢！请听我一言！¤Senior martial uncle, senior, please wait! Please hear me out!
这{$shili}，从今天开始便在宁州除名吧。¤Starting from today, {$shili} will be expelled from Ningzhou.
住手。¤Stop.
正在你跃跃欲试之时，一旁的金虹剑派掌门却急匆匆的走上前来，拦在你和白鹿真人的中间。¤As you were getting excited, the headmaster of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect hurriedly walked up to stand between you and Paragon White Deer.
前辈，若真是展开化神领域与白鹿师叔一战，于你而言也没有实质性的好处，更不用说此举会引起宁州其他化神的注意。¤Senior, if you truly engage in deity transformation domain battle with Master Bai Lu, there is no substantial benefit for you, not to mention that this will attract the attention of other deity transformations in Ningzhou.
见你同意，金虹剑派掌门终于是松了一口气，赶忙命人为你在前领路。¤Seeing that you agreed, the headmaster of the Radiant Sword Sect finally breathed a sigh of relief and quickly ordered someone to lead the way for you ahead.
呵，原来多年前白鹿真人寿终正寝的消息不过是幌子，顺利晋升为化神大能才是真相。¤Ah, it turns out that the news of the paragon white deer's death years ago was just a cover-up, and the truth is that he successfully advanced to become a deity transformation expert.
呵，我又怎会惧你？¤Oh, how could I fear you?
前辈虽然很强，但面对多个化神修士围攻，只怕也难以讨好。又何须为没有实质好处的事提前天劫到来呢？¤Although the senior is very strong, facing the siege of multiple cultivators who have undergone deity transformation, it is probably difficult to please them. Why bother to invite the heavenly tribulation ahead of time for something that has no substantial benefits?
见你和白鹿真人虽尚未动手，但气势也愈发恐怖，这元婴期的掌门也只好硬着头皮赶忙继续说下去，不隔秒忽。¤Seeing that both of you and the Paragon White Deer have not yet made a move, the aura becomes even more terrifying. The Nascent Soul stage master can only grit his teeth and continue speaking, without daring to pause for even a second.
你...竟是白鹿真人！¤You...are actually the Paragon White Deer Expert!
他顿了一顿，望向白鹿真人那边，似乎是在用神识交流。待白鹿真人点头后方才继续说下去。¤He paused and looked towards Expert Paragon White Deer, seemingly communicating with his Soul Sense. Only after Expert Paragon White Deer nodded did he continue speaking.
你虽看不出他的心思，但击溃金虹剑派的护宗大阵后，你正信心十足！¤Although you cannot see his thoughts, you are full of confidence after defeating the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect's protective ancestral formation.
道友竟能破我护宗大阵，实力确是非凡，但先不说我金虹剑派有白鹿师叔坐镇，即便是让道友真灭了金虹剑派满门也没什么实质的好处。¤Fellow Daoist is truly extraordinary to be able to break our sect's protective grand formation. However, I won't mention the fact that our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect has Senior Brother Bailu presiding over it. Even if Fellow Daoist truly exterminated our entire sect, there wouldn't be any substantial benefits.
但{$shili}的其他修士却像是没有看到这人一般，只是一脸惊恐的盯着你。直到这人开始向你缓步走来，你才不自主的将注意力集中在他身上，无暇再留意其他修士。¤However, the other cultivators with {$shili} seemed to have not noticed this person at all, and only stared at you with a terrified expression. It wasn't until this person began to walk towards you slowly that you unconsciously concentrated your attention on him, too preoccupied to pay attention to the other cultivators.
但白鹿真人并没有回应你，甚至未有所动作，在离你不过百十步的位置站定，像是在思考着什么似的。¤But the Paragon White Deer did not respond to you, nor did it make any movement. It stood still at a distance of only a hundred steps from you, as if contemplating something.
离开金虹，否则，你我将以领域之力对决。¤Leave the Golden Rainbow, otherwise we will use the power of our domain to battle.
...实验结果...损失惨重...重要进展...¤...Experimental results...Great loss...Important progress...
看来这个阵法恐怕已经废弃多年了，能量早就消散殆尽。¤It seems that this array has been abandoned for many years now, and its energy has long since dissipated.
你无意中踩到了一块黑色的石板，地面周围顿时闪起了黑光，俨然是一座陷阱阵法。¤You accidentally stepped on a black stone slab, and suddenly black light flashed around the ground, revealing a trap array formation.
魔神蛊？这不是衡州古神教的秘术么，莫非这里从前是古神教的实验基地？¤Devil God Gu? Isn't this the secret arts of the Hengzhou Ancient God Sect? Could it be that this place was once an experimental base for the Ancient God Sect?
鲲族修炼到一定境界时，就可能领悟上古神兽鲲鹏之吞噬秘术，能够吞噬方圆百里内的灵气与一切其它活物，直接消化吸收它们的灵力...¤When the Kun Clan cultivates to a certain level, they may comprehend the Devouring Secret Arts of the ancient divine beast Kunpeng, which allows them to devour the spiritual energy and all other living beings within a hundred miles of the square, directly digesting and absorbing their spiritual power.
你虽然心中感到疑惑，但确实无法找到更多的线索，只能离开了这里...¤Although you felt doubtful in your heart, you really couldn't find any more clues and could only leave here...
玉简的内容是残缺的，找不到其它能读懂的内容了。¤The content of the jade slip is incomplete, and no other readable content can be found.
若能辅以神识威压...成功率...大可提升...¤If combined with soul sense might suppression...the success rate...can greatly increase...
上古神兽之血脉仍在某些妖兽的体内残存，妖兽所修炼的境界越高，血脉觉醒越多，甚至能够领悟上古神兽的部分神通...¤The bloodline of ancient divine beasts still remains in the bodies of some spirit beasts. The higher the cultivation realm of the spirit beast, the more awakenings of the bloodline, and even the ability to comprehend some divine skills of the ancient divine beasts.
你仔细搜索了一番，只找到了几本残缺的记事玉简。¤You carefully searched and only found a few damaged jade slips for note-taking.
不错，而且这里既然留有阵法，那一定是为了保护或者掩盖什么东西。既然这里已经废弃多年了，说不定还能发现一些有用的宝贝...¤Not bad, and since there is an array left here, it must be for protection or concealing something. Since this place has been abandoned for many years, maybe there are still some useful treasures to be found...
妖兽境界不得大于金丹期...¤The realm of the spirit beast cannot exceed the golden core stage.
你瞬间警觉了起来，但那黑光闪动了两下便消失了，什么事情都没有发生...¤You were instantly alert, but the black light flashed twice and disappeared, and nothing happened...
你顺着阵法下方的入口走进一个地下洞窟。洞窟内空荡荡的，除了几张坐台和石桌外，还有一个已经腐朽倒塌的书架。¤You walk into an underground cave through the entrance beneath the array. The cave is empty except for a few chairs and stone tables, as well as a decayed and collapsed bookshelf.
要查看哪个玉简呢？¤Which jade slip do you want to view?
...与我教神通颇为相似...若能掌握...¤If you can master the divine skill that is quite similar to the one in my teachings...
...施展吞噬秘术后，往往需要闭关沉睡数百年，方可完全消化吸收...¤After performing the Devouring Secret Arts, one often needs to cultivate in seclusion for several hundred years in order to fully digest and absorb it.
利用魔神蛊控制妖兽的实验结果...¤The experimental results of using devil god gu to control spirit beasts.
目前已证拥有血脉传承的妖兽...鲲族，龙族，火麒麟，吞云蟒...¤Kun Clan, Dragon Clan, Fire Qilin, Cloud Swallowing Boa...
罢了。这都过了一万年，有没有人记得我都是两说之事…¤It doesn't matter. It has been ten thousand years. Whether anyone remembers me or not, it's all in the past...
道友有所不知，此冥河水母修的乃是神识之体，如今提升境界最快的方法便是吞噬魂体。¤Fellow daoist, you might not know, this deepwater jellyfish cultivates its soul sense body. Currently, the fastest way to advance in realm is to devour soul bodies.
就算有人记得我，又怎么相信这种事情呢？¤Even if someone remembers me, how can they believe such a thing?
依你所说，为你一人修炼便是要牺牲无数生命，岂非与邪修无异？¤According to what you said, to cultivate for only yourself would require sacrificing countless lives, is that not the same as evil cultivation? 
本是如此，但这水母之躯资质极低，光是闭关修炼至元婴期，就已耗费了数千年。¤This is the case, but the aptitude of this jellyfish body is very low. Cultivating in seclusion to reach the nascent soul stage alone has already taken thousands of years.
鹤真人将破解迷阵之法告知了你。按照鹤真人说的方法，不一会你便进入了洞府。¤The Immortal Crane expert informed you of the method to break through the maze. Following the method suggested by the Immortal Crane, you quickly entered the cave.
鹤真人¤Expert of the Crane 
这…若道友需要，我可帮前辈联系碎星商会。届时定会有人助前辈重归人形。¤If Fellow Daoist needs it, I can help Senior contact the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. At that time, someone will definitely help Senior return to human form.
…若是换作我来，的确也没有更好的办法。¤If I were in your place, there wouldn't be a better solution.
你不是妖兽？你是谁？¤Are you not a spirit beast? Who are you?
我本在海上游历，打听到有妖兽伤人之事，自然要除魔卫道。¤I was traveling at sea and heard about an incident of a spirit beast harming people, so naturally I have to vanquish demons and protect the way.
阁下以为，这魂体与人是何关系？¤Do you think there is any relationship between this soul body and humans?
渡劫前，我修炼的洞府便在这附近。洞府外有迷阵防御，若没有我指点，几乎不可能找到。¤Before tribulation, my cultivation cave was nearby. The cave is protected by a maze defence, which would be almost impossible to find without my guidance.
况且若是交换立场，道友可愿一辈子呆在这水母之中？¤Moreover, if we were to switch places, fellow daoist, would you be willing to spend your entire life inside these jellyfish?
鹤真人顿了一下。¤The expert He paused for a moment.
…当初本已做好万全准备…¤...I was already fully prepared at first...
是天道对我的压制？还是此地不适合渡劫？又或是有人从中作梗？我至今都不得而知。¤Is it the suppression of the heavenly path towards me? Or is this place not suitable for tribulation? Or is someone sabotaging me? I still do not know until now.
…这天劫当真如此恐怖？竟连阁下都无法渡过？¤...Is this heavenly tribulation truly so terrifying? Even Your Excellency cannot pass through it?
呵呵，道友能理解自然是极好。不过我却有一个问题想请教道友。¤Hehe, it's great that fellow daoist can understand naturally. However, I have a question to learn from fellow daoist.
阁下既然是修士，为何要吞噬往来的魂体？¤Since you are a cultivator, why do you have to devour the souls of those who come and go?
它身形突然爆退，很快便脱离了开来。¤It suddenly burst back and quickly withdrew.
而且…我堂堂鹤真人，若是这一关都需要外人帮助，以后还谈何飞升？¤And furthermore... as the esteemed expert of the Crane sect, if I require the assistance of outsiders to pass this trial, how can I possibly talk about ascension in the future?
碎星商会现在由吴、唐、白三家共同掌管，此前我也与一名使用飞针的唐家修士……¤The Shattered Star Merchant Guild is currently jointly run by the Wu, Tang, and Bai families. Previously, I also encountered a cultivator from the Tang family who used the flying needle technique.
碎星商会乃是三大商会之一，无尽之海上人尽皆知的存在。¤The Shattered Star Merchant Guild is one of the three major merchant guilds and a well-known presence in the Endless Sea.
一个声音直接在你脑海中响起。¤A voice directly resounds in your mind.
敢问碎星商会可还尚在？¤May I ask if the Shattered Star Merchant Guild still exists?
原来如此…那便谢过道友了。¤Oh, I see... in that case, thank you fellow daoist.
死人自然不能算作人。¤A dead person cannot be considered as a human being.
这…具体情况，我也不太清楚。¤I'm not too sure about the specifics of this situation.
纵然是修炼需要，可有必要这样屠戮灵魂？闭关修炼又何尝不可？¤Even if cultivation requires it, is it necessary to slaughter souls like this? Can't you just cultivate in seclusion?
好，好，好……¤Okay, okay, okay...
你叹了口气，一时也想不到什么话可以安慰他，便也愣在了原地。¤You sighed, unable to think of any comforting words for him at the moment, and just stood there in a daze.
在下道号鹤真人。因渡劫失败，肉身被毁，情急之下钻入了这只冥河水母中。¤I am Daoist He Zhen, an expert. Due to failing my tribulation, my physical body was destroyed. In a moment of desperation, I entered into this deepwater jellyfish.
…既然道友与我颇有缘分，便送给道友一个机缘罢。¤Since fellow daoist and I are quite fated, I will give fellow daoist an opportunity.
那声音消失了一阵，好似在思考些什么。¤That voice disappeared for a while, as if thinking about something.
其实这碎星商会，正是老夫当年所创。¤Actually, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild is precisely what this old man created back then.
此话一出，你能感受到紧张的氛围有所缓和。¤As this statement is made, you can feel the tense atmosphere ease up.
此地便是我洞府之所在。若非仔细探查，就算寻常元婴期修士来此，也发现不了什么端倪。¤This is my cave. Even if an ordinary Nascent Soul cultivator comes here, they won't discover anything without careful exploration.
可如今，碎星商会人尽皆知，老夫却在这水母之中徘徊了万余年…¤But now, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild is known by all, and yet I have wandered among these jellyfish for over ten thousand years...
道友的意思是，若换做是你，便愿意一辈子呆在这水母之中？¤Fellow daoist, would you be willing to spend your whole life among these jellyfish if you were in my place?
此后再闭关修炼，修为更是难有寸进。近百年来吸取魂体修炼，实乃无奈之举。¤Afterwards, cultivating in seclusion again, there was hardly any progress in cultivation. Absorbing soul bodies for cultivation over the past hundred years was truly a last resort.
不然，邪修大多都是草菅人命之辈，与我如何相提并论？¤Otherwise, most demonic cultivators are ruthless and would not be comparable to me in any way.
呵…真当是世事无常。¤Oh...It's really a world of impermanence.
因为这迷阵只能由修士之躯解开…真当是作阵自阻了。¤Because only the body of a cultivator can unravel this maze... It is truly self-sabotage to set up such a formation.
渡劫的丹药秘术已准备妥当，也寻到一处灵气充裕之地。¤The pill secret arts for tribulation have been prepared properly, and a land with abundant spiritual energy has also been found.
若这副躯体升至化神境界，我便有机会借此躯体重获新生。¤If this body ascends to the realm of deity transformation, I will have the chance to be reborn through this body.
那…碎星商会如今是何家族掌管？可还有使用飞针的修士？¤What family currently controls the Shattered Star Merchant Guild? Are there still cultivators who use flying needles?
魂体如何不算是人？只要复活希望尚在，便由不得你滥杀无辜。¤How can a soul body not be considered human? As long as the hope for resurrection remains, you cannot indiscriminately kill people.
言罢，鹤真人便带领你前往海底，找到一处极为偏僻的角落。¤After speaking, He Zhenren led you to the depths of the sea, finding a very remote corner.
敢问道友是何人？为何要与我为敌？¤May I ask fellow daoist who you are? Why do you have to be my enemy?
说完，你们不约而同地沉默了，良久…¤After speaking, you all fell silent in unison, for a long while...
…如此，你为何不亲自回去一趟？¤...In that case, why don't you go back in person?
你将生死比试的事情一五一十地说了出来，那声音也随之消失了一阵，好似在思考些什么。¤You spoke about the life and death competition in detail, and the voice disappeared for a while, as if contemplating something.
无论你有何种理由，草菅人命便是错。¤No matter what your reason is, taking innocent lives is wrong.
但雷劫到来的时候，却比我此前了解到的要强得多…¤But when the thunder kalpa arrived, it was much stronger than what I had previously understood...
神秘声音：道友，暂且收手吧。我们之间好像并没有什么不可调和的恩怨。¤Fellow Daoist, let's stop for now. It seems like there is no irreconcilable enmity between us. Note
我受阴魂岛岛主所托，前来剿灭幽厄。¤I was entrusted by the Ghost Island Lord to come and eradicate the Apotropaic Magic.
不必狡辩了，出手罢。¤No need to argue, take action.
道友与碎星商想必是有什么联系吧？¤Fellow daoist, there must be some connection between you and the Star Shard Merchant, right?
若是道友未见得能做的更好，那么老夫如此，于情于理便都没有问题。¤If my fellow daoist can't do better, then it's okay for me to do so, there's no problem in either reason or emotion.
你想了想这其中的关联，便大致猜想到了其中原委。¤You thought about the connection, and roughly guessed the cause.
只见那只冥河水母蓝光大盛，一股强大的威压迎面袭来，赫然已经达到了化神强度。¤I saw the deepwater jellyfish emitting a strong blue light, while a strong might suppression rushed towards me. It had already reached the level of deity transformation.
你且……¤You [shall]...
洞府中有一只白狐，你且告诉它我的情况，让它前来寻我。剩下的东西，便全归道友所得。¤There is a white fox in the cave, please tell it about my situation and ask it to come find me. The rest belongs to fellow daoist.
这是......？¤What is this...?
想来这便是发出符剑的人，你赶忙上前查看她的伤势。¤It must be the person who released the talisman sword. Quickly go and check her injuries.
或许是举办天下仙道会的缘故，逸风城大街小巷随处可见筑基期修士。¤Perhaps due to the hosting of the Immortal Path Conference, cultivators in the foundation establishment stage can be seen everywhere on the streets and alleys of Yifeng City.
{color=#d0380a}魔修{/color}...金...害...我......¤{color=#d0380a}Demon cultivator{/color}...gold...harm...me...
八成是什么谋财害命的新套路。¤Eight out of ten are new tricks that seek wealth and harm lives.
果然是魔修所为，传闻魔修功法诡谲，嗜血如麻。我一小小修士，还是避而远之为上。¤Indeed it is done by demonic cultivators, rumors say that their cultivation techniques are deceitful and bloodthirsty. As a mere small cultivator, it is best to stay far away from them.
筋脉尽断，神仙难救。道友可还有什么心愿未了，在下将尽力而为之。¤Muscles and veins are broken, gods and goddesses cannot save. Fellow daoist, do you have any unfulfilled wishes? I will do my best to fulfill them.
这符咒灵气甚微，怕是有修士在巷中遇害寻求帮助。我还是跟上去看看，毕竟救人一命，胜造七级浮屠。¤This talisman has very little spiritual energy, perhaps a cultivator is seeking help after being killed in the alley. I will follow and take a look, after all saving someone's life is akin to building a seven-level pagoda.
想骗我？没门儿。¤Want to deceive me? No way.
一些商家见有利可乘，特意在街上支起丹药摊或灵草摊，你正想去前方的摊位看看时，一柄灵气聚成的符剑颤颤巍巍朝你飞来。¤Some merchants, seeing an opportunity to profit, set up stalls selling elixirs or spirit herbs on the street. Just as you were about to approach one of the stalls, a sword made of gathered spiritual energy trembled and flew towards you.
这逸风城中怎么会有{color=#d0380a}魔气{/color}出现？{vpunch=10,0.5}¤How could {color=#d0380a}magic qi{/color} appear in Yifeng City? {vpunch=10,0.5}
魔修突然在宁州出现，背后八成有什么阴谋。置之不理恐有大患，我一定要把他找出来！¤The demonic cultivator suddenly appeared in Ningzhou, with most likely some hidden conspiracy behind him. Ignoring this could lead to great danger, I must find him!
救...救...命......¤Save...Save...Me...
金......说来仙道会上与我交手的那位修士正是使用金属性功法！当时便觉得此人神色有异不似善类，难不成\r就是他？¤Metal... Speaking of the cultivator I fought against at the Immortal Path Conference, he was using metal attribute techniques! At that time, I felt that his expression was different and he didn't seem like a good person. Could it be him?
这暗器水平..莫非是谁家小子刚学会驱物术出来和行人闹着玩？¤This hidden weapon skill... Could it be that some kid just learned how to use telekinesis and is causing trouble with strangers?
你随着灵气指引逐渐深入小巷，一缕令人生恶的气息在空气中弥散。¤You follow the guidance of spiritual energy and gradually enter the alleyway, where a strand of eerie aura fills the air.
话没说完，她把头一偏，明显是断气了。¤The conversation was not finished, she leaned her head to one side, obviously out of breath.
你一把捞住符剑，剑身若隐若现的灵气汇聚成纤细的线，指向路旁的深巷。¤You grabbed the talisman sword, and the aura gathered on the blade as if it were a thin thread, pointing towards the dark alley on the side of the road.
这人应该是为了供奉俸禄而来，或许如今就在{color=#d0380a}宁王府{/color}！¤This person should have come for the sake of receiving a stipend as a guest elder, perhaps now in the {color=#d0380a}Ning King's Manor{/color}!
你又随意逛了逛街道上支起的摊位，发现都是些稀松平常的物件，便兴致索然地离开了。¤You strolled around the stalls that were set up on the street again, but found nothing but ordinary objects, so you left with a lack of interest.
这就是此地的伴生矿物吧。¤This is the accompanying mineral of this place.
这《奇门遁甲录》又名《阵道》，实乃阵法一道的集大成之作。若能寻得这功法，对于阵道一途必定大有裨益。¤This 《Book of the Mystic》, also known as 《Odd Gate》, is the culmination of the art of arrays. If one can obtain this technique, it will undoubtedly be of great benefit to the path of arrays.
这《意守法》乃突破化神之秘术，如今掌握在宁州各大势力手中，唯有用大量灵核方可兑换。¤This 《Guardianship of the Will》 is the secret art to breakthrough deity transformation and is now held by various major forces in Ningzhou, only exchangeable with a large amount of spiritual nuclei.
万年之前宁州不乏阵道大师，若说哪里最有希望得到这些失传的阵道绝学，恐怕也只有在这宁州古迹之中了。¤Many years ago, there were no lack of Array Dao masters in Ningzhou. If one were to seek the lost techniques of Array Dao, this Ning Province ancient ruin may be the most promising place to find them.
有关宁州古迹的情报么...{$TmpTalkString}可曾听说过登仙殿？¤Do you have any information about the ancient ruins in Ning Province...{$TmpTalkString} Have you ever heard of the Hall of Immortal Ascension?
有关宁州古迹的情报么...{$TmpTalkString}可曾听说过《意守法》？¤Do you have any information about the Ningzhou ancient ruins? Have you ever heard of the Guardianship of the Will? {$TmpTalkString}
不过这空间乱流虽然危险，但却有不少像{color=#d0380a}陨母{/color}这样的稀有材料无须漂浮于其中。那时若有{color=#d0380a}体道大成{/color}修为，自然便可顺路收集更多的材料。¤However, although the spatial turbulence is dangerous, there are still many rare materials like meteorite mother that do not need to float in it. If one has achieved the cultivation realm of Body Dao Great Perfection at that time, naturally one can collect more materials along the way.
依我看，这四柄魔剑有很大的可能仍然留在宁州古迹之中，不过即便是能够找到，能否收为己用又是另一回事了。¤In my opinion, there is a big possibility that these four demon swords are still in the Ning Province ancient ruins, but even if they can be found, whether or not they can be claimed as one's own is another matter.
唔...原来{$TmpTalkString}早就听说过了么...¤Hmm... So {$TmpTalkString} has been known all along...
不过要说这《意守法》的出处，其实也是前人在宁州古迹中寻得的。据说这秘术就记载于古原城一处石碑之上，不过唯有{color=#d0380a}心境与神识{/color}修为极高者，方可领悟。¤However, if we talk about the origin of the Guardianship of the Will technique, it was actually discovered by predecessors in the ancient ruins of Ning Province. It is said that this secret art is recorded on a stone stele in Gu Yuan City. However, only those with extremely high mental state and soul sense cultivation can comprehend it.
当年金虹剑仙一剑破碎虚空，劈出了如今的宁州古迹，也劈开了这诛仙剑阵，四柄魔剑也因此下落不明。¤Years ago, the Radiant Sword Immortal shattered the void with a single strike, creating the Ning Province Ancient Ruin and breaking through the Immortal Slaying Sword Array, causing the four Demon Swords to go missing.
可惜随着正魔之战后古原城的陷落，如今这功法便只有在每千年一次古迹开启之时，才有可能见到了。¤Unfortunately, with the fall of Gu Yuan City after the war between the righteous and demonic factions, this technique can only be seen during the opening of ancient ruins that occur once every thousand years.
传说万年前这古原城能够被称为宁州第一大城，便是因为在城中的登仙殿里藏着一本极为神秘的天阶功法，吸引来自各地的修士前来观摩。¤Legend has it that ten thousand years ago, this Gu Yuan City was able to be called the number one city of Ningzhou because a very mysterious heavenly-ranked skill was hidden in the Hall of Immortal Ascension within the city, attracting cultivators from all over to come and observe.
即便修为再深，若长期被困在古迹之中，也会被这煞气侵蚀失去神智，变成不人不鬼的{color=#d0380a}活死人{/color}。¤Even if the cultivation level is deep, if one is trapped in ancient ruins for a long time, they will be eroded by this malevolent aura and lose their sanity, becoming a {color=#d0380a}zombie-like undead{/color}.
就拿那个《玄清天衍录》说吧，万年来从未听说过有人从古迹里成功领悟过这本功法。¤Let's take the 《Xuan Qing Tian Yan Lu》 as an example. For tens of thousands of years, there has never been anyone who successfully enlightened themselves with this technique from ancient relics.
有关宁州古迹的情报么...{$TmpTalkString}可曾听说过空间乱流？¤Do you have any information about the ancient ruins in Ning Province? Have you ever heard of spatial turbulence? {$TmpTalkString}
有关宁州古迹的情报么...{$TmpTalkString}可曾听说过万年前遗失的四柄魔剑？¤Do you have any information about the ancient ruins in Ning Province... Have you ever heard of the four demon swords lost 10,000 years ago? {$TmpTalkString}
有关宁州古迹的情报么...{$TmpTalkString}可曾听说过煞气？¤Do you have any information about the ancient ruins of Ning Province... Have you ever heard of the demonic aura? {$TmpTalkString}
有关宁州古迹的情报么...{$TmpTalkString}可曾听说过失传已久的阵道功法《奇门遁甲录》？¤Do you have any information about the ancient ruins in Ning Province... {$TmpTalkString}, have you ever heard of the lost technique of array dao called The Book of the Mystic 《奇门遁甲录》?
族中古籍记载的许多阵道功法如今都已经失传了，当下宁州阵道一途式微，除我公孙一族外再无专心研究阵道的门派，大概也是因此缘由。¤Many array techniques recorded in ancient books of the clan have now been lost. At present, the technique of array dao in Ningzhou has declined, and there is no sect dedicated to studying array dao except for my Gongsun clan, probably for this reason.
再者说，若真有什么机缘，我又凭什么告诉{$TmpTalkString}？¤Furthermore, if there really was some opportunity, why should I tell {$TmpTalkString}?
但若{color=#d0380a}心境{/color}不坚，即便只是短时间接触煞气，也会被它影响至头晕目眩而无法施展神通。¤However, if the mental state is not firm, even a short time of exposure to the deadly energy will be influenced by it, causing dizziness and inability to perform divine skills.
总之，能找到些稀有草药矿石就不错了。像那些不靠谱的传言，不听也罢！¤In any case, it would be good to find some rare herbs and minerals. As for those unreliable rumors, it's best not to listen to them!
杀戮之地往往煞气凝结，这宁州古迹本就是古代战场，煞气累积万年更是只增不减。¤The land of slaughter often has a condensed malevolent aura. This Ningzhou ancient ruin was originally an ancient battlefield, and the accumulated malevolent aura has only increased over the course of ten thousand years.
传说魔门有四柄魔剑，分别唤作诛仙，戮仙，陷仙与绝仙，合于一处便可布下强大的诛仙剑阵，即便是化神强者亦可诛杀。¤Legend has it that the Demon Sect possesses four demon swords, respectively named Immortal Slaying, Immortal Killing, Immortal Trapping, and Immortal Exterminating. When combined, they can lay down a powerful Immortal Slaying Sword Array, even capable of killing deity-transforming experts.
哼，古迹里真正的宝贝几千年前就被瓜分一空了，如今再去也不过是碰碰运气罢了。¤Hmph, the real treasures in the ancient ruins were already divided up thousands of years ago. Nowadays, going there would only be relying on luck.
嗯？这宁州古迹前前后后都被搜刮不知多少次了吧，还能剩下什么机缘？¤Hmm? This Ning Province ancient ruin has been searched through countless times, what opportunities could possibly be left?
我曾听族中前辈提过，想要进入宁州古迹，必须先穿过一片空间乱流。若肉体力量未修炼至大成，便无法在这乱流中控制方向，只能随波逐流，随意寻一处缝隙进入古迹。¤I have heard from the senior members of my clan that in order to enter the Ningzhou ancient ruins, one must first pass through a chaotic space stream. If one's physical strength has not been cultivated to a sufficient level, they will be unable to control their direction in this stream and will have to go with the flow, finding a gap to enter the ruins at random.
此人相貌风流，却不知为何眉间戾气不散，给人一种凶恶之感。你摇了摇头，决定不再多想，眼下还是比赛更为重要。¤This person has a handsome appearance, but for some reason there is a hint of hostility between their eyebrows, giving off a sense of fierceness. You shook your head, deciding not to think about it any further. The competition was more important at the moment.
这斗法台的比试随时都开放着，道友若是对自己有信心，上台比试便是。¤The dueling terrace is always open for competition, fellow daoist can come up and compete if confident in oneself.
宁王府是宁王同家眷及供奉住所，就位于逸风城东北部。¤The Ning King's Manor is the residence of the Ning King, his family, and the Guest Elders. It is located in the northeast of Yifeng City.
天下仙道会乃宁王为选拔供奉所举办，所有表现出色的修士均可成为宁王府座上宾。¤The Immortal Dao Meeting of Heaven and Earth is organized by the Ning King to select his attendants. All exceptional cultivators can become guests of the Ning King's Manor.
哈哈哈，金道友果然实力不凡，不过我看这位{FirstName}道友信心满满，想来也有不俗的法力。你们二位谁能在这场比试中胜出，我便将他引荐与宁王。¤Hahaha, Fellow Daoist Jin's strength is indeed extraordinary, but I see that Fellow Daoist {FirstName} is full of confidence and likely possesses formidable divine abilities as well. Whoever emerges victorious in this competition, I will introduce to the Ning King.
天下仙道会只有{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}以上境界的修士可参与，道友还是待日后修为精进再前来报名吧。¤The Immortal Dao Meeting is only open to cultivators at the Foundation Establishment stage or above. Fellow Daoists, please improve your cultivation before applying to participate.
嘿，一旦进了宁王府，那便有了享不尽的荣华富贵，多少人挤破头皮也想得到宁王的赏识，这岂不就是最大的赏赐。¤Hey, once you enter the Ning King's Manor, you will have endless enjoyment of wealth and prosperity. Many people would do anything to earn the appreciation of the Ning King, which is the ultimate reward.
你正与擂台管事了解相关事宜，就听得台下传来一阵高呼声。原是台上之人已打退几波攻擂修士，管事见此也面露赞色。¤You are discussing relevant matters with the steward of the arena when you hear a loud cry from the audience below. It turns out that several waves of attacking cultivators have been repelled by those on stage, and the steward shows his admiration for this.
你暗中打量对手，他单手执一柄金属扇子法器，隐隐透出锋锐之气，想来应主修金属性功法。¤You secretly size up your opponent, who holds a magic tool in the form of a metal fan in one hand, emitting a faint but sharp aura. It is likely that they specialize in practicing metal attribute techniques.
此情此景使你不觉技痒，示意擂台管事后便运起功法跃上擂台。¤This situation and scenery make you itch with the desire to use your skills, signaling the steward of the arena and then using your techniques to jump onto the stage.
逸风府为宁王处理政务之地，平日里不对外开放。¤Yifeng Manor is the place where Ning King handles political affairs, and is not open to the public on regular days.
道友可是前来参加天下仙道会的？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow daoist, have you come to participate in the Heavenly Path Conference?{w}{w=0.5}
此地看来是一处天然形成的洞窟，你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤It appears to be a naturally formed cave in this location. What will you decide to do...?{w}{w=0.5}
你收敛气息，慢慢走进洞窟深处，索性并没有遇到其他的危险，¤You converge your breath and slowly walk into the depths of the cave, fortunately not encountering any other dangers.
你将草药其纳入储物袋，然后心满意足地离开了。¤You stored the herbs into the storage pouch, and then left contentedly.
此等品阶的草药实乃可遇而不可求之物，索性还没有人在你之前发现此处机缘。你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤The herbs of such classes are rare and hard to find. No one has discovered them before you. You decide...?{w}{w=0.5}
你小心翼翼地摘下草药，将其纳入储物袋，然后心满意足地离开了。¤You carefully picked the herbs, put them in a storage pouch, and left with satisfaction.
你谨慎地用神识扫过洞窟，随即惊喜地发现了两株极为罕见的{SayStcVal=948}¤You cautiously scanned the cave with your soul sense, then were pleasantly surprised to discover two extremely rare {SayStcVal=948} plants.
此等品阶的草药实乃可遇而不可求之物，但机遇往往也可能伴随着巨大的风险。你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤The herbs of these classes are rare and hard to come by, but opportunities often come with great risks. What will you decide...? {w}{w=0.5}
我素来好战，热衷冒险历练。但在这无尽之海上，却第一次感到了迷惘。¤I have always been fond of combat and enthusiastic about exploring adventures. But on this endless sea, I feel lost for the first time.
百里奇思忖片刻，随即朗声大笑。¤After pondering for a moment, Baili Qi burst into a loud laughter.
百里家族训云：“入海者，蓬莎止。”¤'One who enters the sea, stops at the Penglai.'
百里奇沉默地看向远方的海洋，过了好一会儿才收回目光。¤Baili Qi silently gazed towards the distant ocean for a while before withdrawing his gaze.
百里一族在无尽之海中最远只可到蓬莎岛，我曾问过祖父原因，他只说若是前往更深的海域便会惹上杀身之祸。¤The furthest the Baili tribe can go in the Endless Sea is Pongsha Island. I once asked my grandfather why, and he only said that going further into the sea would bring about fatal danger.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}若有想要交易的物品也可到坊市看看。¤{FirstName} and {xiongdi}, if you have items that you want to trade, you can also check out the marketplace.
这还用说，自然是以体破万法，以力敌千钧。若地拦我，我便碎这地：若天阻我，我便破这天！¤Why ask? Of course, I will use my body to break all laws and my strength to defy a thousand catties. If the earth blocks me, I will shatter it; if the heavens stop me, I will break through them!
那这海又算作何物？¤What is this sea?
哈哈哈，多谢{FirstName}{xiongdi}，真是当局者迷旁观者清。¤Hahaha, thank you {FirstName} {xiongdi}, you truly have a clear view as an outsider.
你还有机会前往无尽之海的深处历练，但我却做不到。¤You still have the opportunity to venture into the depths of the endless sea, but I cannot do it.
蓬莎岛经济发达，许多世家都会来到蓬莎岛寻求贸易机会，百里家也不例外。¤Pongsha Island is economically developed, and many aristocratic families come to seek business opportunities on Pongsha Island, including the Baili family.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}所言甚是，我还是先回去看看商队吧。¤{FirstName} brother speaks truthfully, I had better go back and check on the merchant caravan first.
百里兄有此兴致，我定当奉陪，不知百里兄打算何时出海？¤If Brother Baili is interested, I will certainly accompany him. May I ask when Brother Baili plans to set sail?
百里兄的道为何？¤What is Baili's Tao?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，别来无恙？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, how have you been?
幼时叔父的船队不听劝告，为了货物冒险前往碎星岛，最后整支船队都在海上失去了音讯。¤When I was young, my uncle's fleet disregarded advice and took the risk to journey to Shattered Star Island for goods, but in the end the entire fleet lost contact at sea.
我在这蓬莎岛还有些事情要处理，恕难奉陪。¤I still have some matters to handle on Pongsha Island, apologies for being unable to accompany you.
我打算择日出海，不知{FirstName}{xiongdi}是否有兴趣同行？¤I plan to set sail soon. I wonder if {FirstName} would be interested in coming along?
自我突破金丹以来经常随家族商队携货物来到蓬莎岛，与这无尽之海上的修士交换些陆上没有的修炼资源。¤Since breaking through to the golden core, I often accompany my family's merchant caravan to Pongsha Island to exchange cultivation resources that are not available on land with cultivators on this endless sea.
前车之鉴在此，恐怕百里家的祖训确有其事。百里兄还是谨遵祖训，切莫以身试险了。¤The lesson learned from the past is here, I'm afraid the ancestral teachings of the Baili family are indeed true. Brother Baili should still strictly follow the ancestral teachings and not risk himself.
无尽之海当真莫测，不知此行能有什么收获。¤The Endless Sea is truly unfathomable, and I do not know what gains can be made on this journey.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}可曾前往过更深的海域？¤Has {FirstName} ever ventured into deeper seas, my brother?
无妨，我最近都会待在岛上。等你把手头的事情处理完，再回码头找我便是。¤No problem, I have been staying on the island recently. After you finish your current tasks, come back to the pier and find me.
现下家族商队并无紧要之事，{FirstName}{xiongdi}若是愿意，我们即刻便可出发！¤Currently, there is nothing urgent happening with the family caravan. {FirstName} {xiongdi}, if you are willing, we can depart at once!
何人入阵？！纳命来！¤Who dares to enter the battle?! Surrender now!
没想到{FirstName}{gongzi}几乎独自破解了这个阵眼。在下还想着接应，现在想来没添乱已经是万幸了。¤I didn't expect {FirstName} Gongzi to almost decipher this formation on his own. I was still thinking about supporting him, but now it seems fortunate that I didn't cause any trouble.
{FirstName}{gongzi}小心！！¤{FirstName} Gongzi, be careful!!
公孙季向你拱拱手，没有再说什么。¤Gongsun Ji bowed to you and didn't say anything more.
随着傀儡的倒下，周遭平静了下来，灵气也归于平静。若不是破碎的傀儡静静地躺在地上，完全看不出这里发生过一场大战。¤As the puppet fell, the surroundings quieted down and the spiritual energy returned to calmness. If it weren't for the shattered puppet lying silently on the ground, one would not be able to tell that a great battle had just taken place here.
你被火焰傀儡击倒，眼看着一双被火焰包裹着的巨拳就要令你身陨道消。¤You were knocked down by the flame puppet, and watched as a pair of giant fists wrapped in flame were about to extinguish you.
公孙兄客气了，若不是有你的阵法作为后援，我也难以安心破解此阵。¤Gongsun brother is being polite. If it weren't for your array as backup, I would also find it difficult to peacefully dismantle this formation.
只见公孙季匆匆赶来。他手捏法袂，瞬息之间已布下多个阵法为你挡下这一拳。然后转身与傀儡缠斗到了一起。¤I saw Gongsun Ji hurriedly arrive. He quickly formed several arrays with a flick of his sleeve to block the punch for you. Then he turned around and began fighting with the puppet.
姗姗来迟的公孙季看了看破碎的傀儡，一丝惊讶在他眼中转瞬而逝，显然是没想到你这么快就解决了傀儡。¤Gongsun Ji, who arrived late, looked at the shattered puppet, a hint of surprise fleeting in his eyes. Clearly, he did not expect you to solve the puppet so quickly.
但灵核矿脉则不同，灵核只会在密度极大的情况下经过长时间的压缩而形成。而灵脉中密度越大的地方，想要找到并采集到灵核的难度也越大。¤But the spiritual core vein of ore is different. Spiritual cores only form through long periods of compression in extremely dense conditions. The greater the density in the spiritual vein, the more difficult it becomes to find and gather spiritual cores.
一般的灵石矿脉，任何人都能采集，无非是速度快慢而已。¤Ordinary spirit stone veins can be gathered by anyone, it's just a matter of speed.
道友在进入灵脉前，我会给道友发放一枚记时玉简，用于记录道友在灵脉中采集的时间。¤Before entering the spiritual vein, I will give fellow daoist a timing jade slip to record the time fellow daoist spent gathering in the spiritual vein.
每在灵脉中采集一个月，道友需向我们缴纳一枚灵核或是与之等价的灵石。相对应的，我们也会维持整个灵脉内的秩序。¤Every month of gathering in the spiritual veins, fellow daoist needs to hand in one spiritual nucleus or equivalent spirit stones to us. In return, we will maintain the order within the spiritual veins.
青石灵脉由宁州各派轮流管理，对所有修真者开放。¤The Greenstone Spirit Vein is managed by various sects in Ningzhou on a rotating basis, and is open to all cultivators.
请道友指点。¤Please, fellow daoist, give me advice.
灵脉内原则上不禁止争斗比试抢夺灵气充裕的采集点，但切记不要下死手。否则一旦出了人命，执法队也不会放任不管。¤The principle within the spiritual vein does not strictly prohibit fighting, competition, or seizing of abundant spiritual energy gathering points, but remember not to use lethal force. If someone is killed, the law enforcement team will not turn a blind eye.
道友还有什么想问的么？¤Fellow daoist, is there anything else you would like to ask?
若是道友神识修为不足的话，建议不要太过深入灵脉，在外围采集便可。¤If fellow daoist's soul sense cultivation is insufficient, it is recommended not to venture too deeply into the spiritual veins and gather at the outskirts.
各大门派包括白帝楼都有负责灵核兑换的执事，道友收集到足够的灵核后，可以和他们兑换许多修炼与突破用的必须品。¤All major sects, including White Emperor Pavilion, have stewards responsible for exchanging spiritual cores. Fellow cultivators can exchange many necessary items for cultivation and breakthroughs with them once they have collected enough spiritual cores.
道友看着面生，应该是第一次来青石灵脉吧。需要我为道友介绍一二么？¤Fellow daoist looks unfamiliar. Should it be the first time to come to the greenstone spirit vein? Do you need me to introduce it?
还有什么问题么？¤Is there any other question?
若是没有足够的神识修为，不但采集速度会大幅降低，就连找到灵核的位置也极其困难。¤If one's soul sense cultivation is not sufficient, not only will the gathering speed greatly decrease, it will also be extremely difficult to even locate the spirit core.
灵核虽不像灵石那样便于使用，但却是各大宗门与势力布置大型阵法时的必备之物。¤Although not as easy to use as spirit stones, spirit cores are essential for major arrays set up by the various clans and forces.
在宁州，灵核非常稀有，唯有我们青石灵脉可以比较稳定的找到这种资源。¤In Ningzhou, spirit nuclei are very rare, only our Greenstone Spirit Vein can relatively stably find this kind of resource.
阁下能如此说，在下便了然了。¤Your Excellency speaks so, I understand.
想必阁下踏过化神的门槛，只是迟或早而已，范某便提前恭贺阁下了。¤I believe that you have already passed the threshold of deity transformation, it's just a matter of time. Congratulations in advance from Fan Mou.
谢阁主关心，那在下便先行告退了。¤Thank you for your concern, Senior Xie. I will take my leave first.
呵呵呵呵，阁下可还算有收获？¤Hehehe, have you made any gains, sir?
想必阁主也是早已感悟过此物，知晓其中玄妙，才会特意在此等候吧。¤Presumably, the pavilion master has already gained enlightenment on this object, understood its mysteries, and therefore waited here specifically for it.
范阁主说笑了，我若全无收获，怎舍得这么快便出来？¤Master Fan is joking. If I had no gain at all, how could I bear to leave so soon?
也好，在下便送你一程罢。¤Okay, I will give you a ride.
阁主过誉了，若有此事，在下必然不会坐视不理。¤The lord overpraises, if such a thing happens, I will definitely not sit idly by.
事毕，你径直走到入口处，范阁主仍在此处等候。¤After finishing your business, you walked straight to the entrance where Master Fan was still waiting.
日后我阁若不慎落入危难之间，还望阁下能伸以援手。¤In the future, if our sect falls into danger, I hope that you can lend a helping hand.
你察觉到他嘴角隐约露出了一丝会心的笑，但立刻就消失不见。¤You noticed a faint smile at the corner of his mouth, but it immediately disappeared.
哈哈哈哈哈，那范某便提前谢过阁下了。¤Hahaha, then Fan will thank you in advance, sir.
阁下刚有所顿悟，还是早点加以巩固为上。¤You have just realized something, so it is best to consolidate it as soon as possible.
你二人行至主阁前，相互作了一揖后，他便目送你御剑离开了。¤You two walked to the front of the main pavilion, bowed to each other, and then he watched you leave on your sword.
呼...好险。¤Phew… That was close.
哼，不过如此。¤Hmph, just so.
哼，这些沂山的小鬼竟敢把主意打到老子身上来，还真是不把我们老倪家放在眼里了。¤Hmph, these little ghosts from Yishan actually dared to scheme against me. They really don't take our Ni family seriously.
那太好了，我也正想去瞧瞧呢。¤That's great, I also wanted to go take a look.
没想到{xiongdi}你如此功力便奋不顾身来助我...那我也不能藏着掖着了！¤I didn't expect that you, {xiongdi}, would have such strength and courage to help me... so I can't keep hiding it anymore!
哎，不说他们了，{FirstName}{xiongdi}此时来这里，也是准备去参加{color=#d0380a}东石谷{/color}的仙师集会吧？¤Ah, let's not talk about them. {FirstName}, are you here to attend the Immortal Master gathering in the {color=#d0380a}East Stone Valley{/color}, {xiongdi}?
如此甚好，那就有劳倪兄引路了！¤Very well, then I'll trouble Brother Ni to lead the way!
不过但凡这种{color=#d0380a}坊市{/color}集会，肯定能打听到不少修真界的消息，我们也跟去看看便是。¤However, any gathering in this marketplace is sure to yield information about the world of cultivation. Let's follow along and see what we can find out.
（老头，你有听说过这个什么仙师集会么？）¤(Old man, have you heard of this Immortal Master Conference?)
嗐，我也没想明白。¤Sigh, I haven't figured it out either.
老夫都在那破剑里睡了这么多年了，哪里知道这些。¤I have been sleeping inside that broken sword for so many years, how would I know about these things?
刚才多谢{xiongdi}你出手相助了，在下是武陵城倪家的倪旭欣，{xiongdi}你怎么称呼？¤Just now, thank you for helping me out {xiongdi}. I am Ni Xuxin from the Ni Family of Wuling City. May I know how to address you, {xiongdi}?
实不相瞒，在下三个月前才刚刚踏入炼气初期。¤To be honest, I only just entered the Qi Refining stage three months ago. 
{xiongdi}你刚刚大战一场，应该也受了些小伤。这几颗疗伤用的丹药你且拿着，内服后运气打坐片刻，应该就能痊愈了。¤Brother, you just fought a big battle and should have some minor injuries. Take these healing pills with you and take them internally. After meditating for a while, you should be able to recover.
那...那就多谢倪兄了！¤Well then, thank you very much, Brother Ni!
按{color=#d0380a}Tab{/color}键打开背包，可以查看刚刚获得的物品与传闻信息。\n点击{color=#d0380a}神通{/color}分页，以配置你的技能栏。\n点击{color=#d0380a}物品{/color}分页，以配置装备、使用物品。¤Press the {color=#d0380a}Tab{/color} key to open your backpack and view recently acquired items and rumors. Click the {color=#d0380a}Divine Powers{/color} tab to configure your skill bar. Click the {color=#d0380a}Items{/color} tab to configure your equipment and use items.
咱们可是过命的交情，不用客气哈哈！¤We have a deep friendship, no need to be polite haha!
（魏老，你有听说过这个什么仙师集会么？）¤(Old Wei, have you heard of this Immortal Master gathering?)
不知阁下是怎么招惹上这帮煞神了？¤I don't know how you managed to provoke these devil gods.
不过但凡这种坊市集会，肯定能打听到不少修真界的消息，我们也跟去看看便是。¤However, any gathering in this kind of marketplace will definitely have a lot of news from the cultivation world. Let’s go and take a look.
东石谷？¤East Stone Valley?
在下姓{FirstName}，恰好路过这里，刚刚那些人是...？¤I am surnamed {FirstName}, just passing through here. Who were those people just now?
这些人是{color=#d0380a}沂山派{/color}的修士，专门干一些杀人夺宝的缺德事儿，瞧见我淘了件不错的法器，就想来夺。¤These people are cultivators from mt. yi sect, who specialize in doing wicked things like killing people and taking treasures. When they saw me getting a decent magic tool, they wanted to snatch it away.
呼...好险。没想到这几个沂山派的小鬼还有两下子。¤Phew... That was close. I didn't expect those little devils from the Mt. Yi Sect to be quite skilled.
正遇到他们在谷外大张旗鼓兜售一件号称地阶的“赤乙扇”。¤Just as they encountered them, they were loudly selling a supposedly Earth-grade "Red Yi Fan" outside the valley.
我一眼就看出这是假货，但他们却打死不认。于是我便用我手上这把真的赤乙扇，一击把那赝品打碎了。¤I could immediately tell that this was a fake, but they stubbornly refused to admit it. So, I used my genuine Chiyi fan to strike and shatter the counterfeit.
这东石谷每年的{color=#d0380a}一月和二月{/color}都会举办仙师集会，宁州的许多青年修士都会来这里摆摊交易，也算一大盛事。¤Every year in the {color=#d0380a}first and second month{/color} of the year, a gathering of immortal masters is held in the East Stone Valley. Many young cultivators from Ningzhou come here to set up booths for trading, making it a grand event.
我本来是准备去参加东石谷的仙师集会，淘点宝贝。¤I was originally planning to attend the Immortal Master Meeting in East Stone Valley to find some treasures.
（难怪这帮沂山派的要死要活，就算是高仿赝品也得值几百灵石吧）¤(No wonder these Yishan sect members are fighting for their lives. Even a high-quality imitation is worth several hundred spirit stones.) 
怎么样？{FirstName}{xiongdi}若是无事，不妨与我结伴一同去那东石谷转转，也许能换得一两件趁手的法宝呢。¤How about it? {FirstName}, {xiongdi}, if you have nothing better to do, why don't you accompany me to explore the East Stone Valley? Who knows, we might find a few useful artifacts.
那是当然! 倪家代代有训，为人要刚正不阿，鉴物要去伪存真。¤That's for sure! The Ni family has always had traditions of being upright and honest, and always distinguishing between true and false.
这种低阶修士的集会大陆上没有上百个也有几十个的，老夫哪能都听说过。¤There are dozens if not hundreds of such low-level cultivator gatherings on the continent, how could I have heard of them all?
……打碎了？¤...Broken?
东石谷？仙师集会？¤East Stone Valley? Immortal Master gathering?
对了，刚才看你应付那家伙有些吃力，{xiongdi}莫不是刚入炼气期？¤By the way, I saw you were having some difficulty dealing with that guy earlier. {xiongdi}, are you just entering the Qi Refining stage?
噢？你不知道么？¤Oh? Don't you know?
这个，在下姓{FirstName}...，阁下不必客气，路见不平出手相助，这也是我辈修仙者的本分。¤I am surnamed {FirstName} and you don't have to be polite. Helping others in need is the duty of us immortal cultivators. 
这几颗生骨丹可是我好不容易从家里带出来的，疗效比那些普通的化瘀丹可好上不少。¤These Minor Healing Pills were difficult for me to bring from home, their healing effects are much better than ordinary Novice Healing Pills.
还好他们没追上来...¤Fortunately, they didn't catch up...
此去西北百余里便是东石谷，每年的一月和二月都会举办仙师集会，宁州的许多青年修士都会来这里摆摊交易，也算一大盛事。¤About a hundred miles northwest from here is East Stone Valley. Every January and February, they hold an Immortal Master assembly where many young cultivators from Ningzhou come to trade and set up stalls. It is quite a grand event.
这个...在下是武陵城倪家的倪旭欣，{xiongdi}你怎么称呼？¤This...I am Ni Xuxin from Wuling City's Ni family. What should I call you, {xiongdi}?
要是{xiongdi}赏光，不如我们一道前往东石谷？那仙师集会可是远近闻名的盛会了。¤If {xiongdi} is willing, why don't we go to East Stone Valley together? The Immortal Master Assembly there is a famous event.
具体是什么也没人见到，遗留的毛发似乎和狼很像，但是寻常野狼哪敢主动招惹修仙者？事出反常，必有妖孽。¤Nobody saw exactly what it was. The leftover hair seems to be similar to that of a wolf, but ordinary wild wolves wouldn't dare to provoke cultivators on their own. This abnormal situation must have some demonic beast involved.
一般各大城主府或是门派都会发布除妖令，根据危险程度会有不同报酬。不过妖怪可不都是无脑蛮力，危险程度也很难一概而论，功力低微者还是少参合为妙。¤Most major city lord mansions or sects will issue demon removing orders, with different rewards depending on the level of danger. However, not all demons are brainless brutes, and the level of danger is difficult to generalize. It is best for those with low abilities to participate less.
这也是蹊跷。野兽伤人一般贪图血肉，但是这些遇难者却无一例外被吸干了丹田真气。莫非这畜生也懂得修炼？¤This is also suspicious. Wild beasts usually attack people for their flesh and blood, but all these victims have had their dantian true qi sucked dry without exception. Could it be that this animal also knows cultivation?
听说最近常有炼气期修士遭到未知野兽袭击，伤口全在丹田，似乎是奔着炼化的真气而来。难道这些畜生也有了灵智不成？¤I heard that recently there have been frequent attacks by unknown beasts on qi refining cultivators, with injuries all located at the dantian, as if they were targeting the refined true qi. Could it be that these beasts have gained intelligence?
陷入寂静的锁鸾堂被孤独的留在身后，四近甚至没有一丝风声。¤The silence engulfed Suoluan Hall, leaving nothing but loneliness in its wake. Not even the slightest breeze could be felt in the surroundings.
几次攻防之后，你用神通给予偷袭者致命一击，这才发现星铃儿在你与此人缠斗期间已是去过隔壁房间，如今刚好回来。¤After several attacks and defenses, you used a divine skill to launch a sneak strike that dealt a fatal blow to the attacker, only to discover afterward that Star Bell had already gone to the neighboring room while you were fighting and had just returned.
星铃儿边说着，边向外走去，你下意识的便用神识探向星铃儿走出来的方向，却未发现任何异常，倒是她的语气平淡得让你有些发冷。¤Star bell silently walked out while speaking. You instinctively used your soul sense to probe in the direction that she walked, but you didn't find anything unusual. Instead, her tone was plain and it made you feel a bit chilly.
不过瞬息之间，你与栖云真人已交手数回合，对方虽说是金丹期修士，但在你的猛烈攻势下竟是节节败退。原本在栖云真人刚动手就准备制止他的通羽、苗矮二人也是惊于你的强大实力，手下慢了几分。¤However, in the blink of an eye, you and Immortal Taoist Quyun have fought several rounds, and although he is a cultivator at the golden core stage, he is steadily losing ground against your fierce attacks. Originally, Tongyu and Miao Ai, who were ready to stop Immortal Taoist Quyun as soon as he acted, were also amazed at your powerful strength and were a little slow to react.
星姑娘，隔壁是？¤young lady.
没什么，只是他们搜来的鼎炉而已，已经被我处理了。¤It's nothing, just the cauldron they searched for, I've already dealt with it.
经过短暂思考后，你还是选择跟上星铃儿，放下了去隔壁房间一探究竟的念头。¤After a brief consideration, you decided to follow Star Bell, abandoning the idea of finding out what's going on in the next room.
长老堂有本奇怪的书和一封信件，我还没拆开看里面的内容。¤The Elder Hall has a strange book and a letter, which I haven't opened yet to see its contents.
啊，是中草堂寄来的！凡人没办法使用玉简，要通过书信交流...中草堂无法确定仙长需要的“天蝉灵叶”生长于何处，望您海涵。¤Ah, it's a letter from Zhongcaotang! Mortals are unable to use jade slips, so communication must be done through epistles... Zhongcaotang is unable to determine where the skyscada leaf the immortal needs grows, please forgive us.
虽然私拆信件不太好，但特殊时期这也是没办法的事。让我看看里面写了什么......¤Although it's not good to open someone else's mail, it's unavoidable during special circumstances. Let me see what's inside and read what it says...
我从来没听说过这种草药，长老堂要它做什么？¤I have never heard of this kind of herb, what does the Elder Hall need it for?
至于这本书...我一时也找不到头绪。为什么要挖得坑坑洼洼呢？¤As for this book...I can't seem to make heads or tails of it. Why dig so many pits and bumps?
眼前的路径遍布生生不息的藤蔓，稍有不慎便会深陷其中。¤The path before one's eyes is covered in endlessly restless vines, and one must be careful not to fall into them.
此地由数块奇石组成，似乎是一座天然的困阵。¤This place is made up of several strange stones, as if it is a natural formation.
你翻了翻储物袋，发现你并没有{$Var1}。¤You searched through the storage pouch and found that you didn't have {$Var1}.
遁速不足的你，在其中相形见绌只得退回来。¤You who lack speed, found yourself to be inferior among them and were forced to retreat.
眼前的路径烈火熊熊，温度及其骇人。¤The path before my eyes is ablaze with scorching flames, and the temperature is extremely daunting.
你凭借遁速强闯而过。¤You passed through with strong speed.
你在阵中兜兜转转有回到了原地。¤You wandered around in the formation and ended up back where you started.
此地有一滩毒沼，瘴气弥漫在空中。¤There is a poisonous swamp here, with miasma permeating the air.
眼前的路径遍布锋利的金石，罡风四射。¤The path before me is covered in sharp rocks and the winds are raging.
你通过对{$wudaoname2}的领悟，通过了此地异象。¤Through enlightenment of {$wudaoname2}, you have passed this strange phenomenon.
眼前的路径寒气四溢，寒风四起。¤The path ahead was filled with a cold chill, and the cold wind blew wildly.
你通过对{$wudaoname1}的领悟，通过了此地异象。¤Through your enlightenment of {$wudaoname1}, you have passed this place's anomaly.
眼前山石散去化沙，一滩巨大的流沙横亘于前。¤The mountains and rocks in front of me scattered and transformed into sand, revealing a vast expanse of flowing sand before me.
对{$wudaoname1}的领悟，难以通过此地异象。¤It is difficult to attain enlightenment for {$wudaoname1} through this vision.
你决定.......¤You decide...
御起{$Var1}，通过此地异象。¤Awaken {$Var1}, and pass through this land's anomaly.
对{$wudaoname2}的领悟，难以通过此地异象。¤It is difficult to attain enlightenment for {$wudaoname2} through the phenomenon present in this place.
没想到这老道竟已是金丹修为，若非身中蛊毒，我又岂是他的对手。¤Unexpectedly, this old daoist has already attained a golden core cultivation level. If it weren't for the poison in my body, how could I be his opponent.
这老头，看来是邪道中人我还是回白帝楼汇报一下吧 。¤This old man seems to belong to the demonic path. I should return to the White Emperor Pavilion to report.
你说这白帝和血薇过去到底发生过什么呢？¤What exactly happened in the past between this White Emperor and Xue Wei?
{$TmpTalkString}今天可真是让我刮目相看呢。¤{$TmpTalkString} Today really made me look at you with new eyes.
呼...多...多谢道友出手相助，否则我一时不备，恐怕已糟了此人毒手。¤*Sigh*... Thank you, fellow daoist, for your help is at hand. Otherwise, I may have suffered the poison of this person's hand due to my momentary unpreparedness.
还请道友收下我的传音符印记，日后若有事尽管吩咐，我一定尽力而为！¤Fellow Daoist, please accept my Sound Talisman mark. If you need anything in the future, feel free to command me and I will do my best to assist you!
既然能为阁下做的事情都做了，便只能祝阁下一切顺利了。¤Since everything that can be done for you has been done, I can only wish you all the best.
领悟神通《{color=#d0380a}饲鬼术{/color}》¤Enlightenment Divine Skill 《{color=#d0380a}Ghost Feeding{/color}》
不一会，她平复了心情，随即拿出了一个储物袋。¤In no time, she calmed down and then took out a storage pouch.
不错。只不过我要做的事，却简单得多。¤Not bad. It's just that what I need to do is much simpler.
就算希望再渺茫，我也想复活她。¤Even if the hope is faint, I still want to resurrect her.
你们的招式与本座之前所修的功法似乎出自同源，本座也颇感兴趣，你且看好？¤Your moves and the techniques I've previously cultivated seem to come from the same origin. I'm quite interested, so watch carefully.
领悟功法《{color=#d0380a}血魂录{/color}》¤Enlightenment technique {color=#d0380a}Blood Soul Record{/color}》
你将那玉简递给了她。她神识扫过，神情从兴奋、期待，逐渐转为失落。¤You handed the jade slip to her. Her soul sense swept over it, her expression changing from excitement and anticipation to disappointment.
领悟神通《{color=#d0380a}唤灵咒{/color}》¤Enlightenment of divine skills 《{color=#d0380a}Summons{/color}》
领悟神通《{color=#d0380a}魂啸{/color}》¤Enlightenment of divine skills 《{color=#d0380a}howling{/color}》
你说着，便运起《禾山经》展示给她看...¤As you spoke, you activated the 《Harvest Mountain Manual》 and displayed it for her to see...
前辈还有何事？¤Senior, is there anything else you need?
实不相瞒，贵殿的招式与我之前所修的功法似乎出自同源，我也颇感兴趣，不知道友可愿赐教？¤To be frank, fellow daoist, your techniques seem to come from the same source as the cultivation method I have been practicing before. I am quite interested in it. I don't know if you would be willing to enlighten me on it?
若我所猜不错，道友也是想复活剑中的魂体吧？¤If I'm not mistaken, fellow daoist also wants to resurrect the soul body in the sword, right?
道友可是拿到逆天造化术了？¤Did fellow daoist manage to obtain the technique of defying good fortune?
领悟功法《{color=#d0380a}幽魂录{/color}》¤Enlightenment techniques in 《{color=#d0380a}Ghosts{/color}》 record.
原来如此...这功法虽说很是初级，但确与我派功法出自同源，也不知是什么时候流传出去的。¤It turns out...this technique may be considered beginner level, but it is related to the techniques in our sect. I'm not sure when it started to spread.
领悟功法《{color=#d0380a}驭灵典{/color}》¤Enlightenment of techniques from the {color=#d0380a}Mastering the Spirit{/color} manual.
嗯，不知你今后可有何打算？¤Hmm, do you have any plans for the future?
前辈替我殿找到镇殿之宝，这些东西还请前辈收下。¤Senior, on behalf of me, has found the treasure that can suppress the temple. Please accept these items, senior.
前辈看好，此乃我万魂殿入门功法《幽魂录》...¤Senior, please take a look. This is the introductory technique of our Wan Hundian, called 《Ghost Record》...
若我所猜不错，前辈也是想复活剑中的魂体吧？¤If I'm not mistaken, Senior also wants to revive the soul body within the sword, right?
那便谢过道友了。¤Then I'll thank my fellow daoist and take my leave.
那便谢过道友了。不知道友今后可有何打算？¤Thank you, fellow daoist. I don't know what your plans are for the future?
没想到其条件竟如此苛刻…¤I didn't expect the conditions to be so harsh...
你且看好，此乃我万魂殿入门功法《幽魂录》...¤You'll see, this is the beginner technique of my Wan Hun Palace, 《Ghost Record》...
前辈此等功绩，若感兴趣的话，在下愿将本殿功法演示一遍，以供前辈参考。¤Senior, if you are interested in such achievements, I am willing to demonstrate the techniques of our sect for your reference.
道友替我殿找到镇殿之宝，这些东西还请道友收下。¤Fellow Daoist, please help me find the treasure of the town temple. I ask that you take these things as well.
阁下此等功绩，也的确够资格做我殿名誉长老。你若感兴趣的话，我亲自教你便是。你已有一定基础，想必花费不了多少时日，便可入门了。¤Your achievements are worthy of being a honorary elder of our sect. If you're interested, I can personally teach you. With your existing knowledge, I believe you can learn quickly and become proficient in no time.
接过储物袋后，你迅速用神识扫过一便——其中天材地宝一应俱全。¤After receiving the storage pouch, you quickly scanned it with your soul sense finding all sorts of heavenly treasures and precious earthly materials inside.
既然能为你做的事情本座都做了，便只能祝你一切顺利了。¤Since everything that I can do for you has already been done, all I can do now is wish you all the best.
当年若非因为我，师妹也不会...¤Back then, if it weren't for me, Sister wouldn't have...
领悟功法《{color=#d0380a}万魂录{/color}》¤Enlightenment Techniques in the All Souls Record
我是主角¤I am the hero.
又过了几个月，百里奇依旧没有出现。再不启航就要错过与龙湛的约定了，还是去他的房间看看吧。¤After a few more months passed, Baili Qi still hadn't shown up. If they didn't set off soon, they would miss their appointment with Long Zhan. It's better to go to his room and check it out.
击败无尽之海中的妖兽后，道友一定记得将它们身上可用的部位收集起来，像是皮、爪、牙之类的..¤After defeating the spirit beasts in the Endless Sea, fellow daoist, be sure to collect any usable parts from their bodies, such as their skin, claws, and teeth.
远方的雾气渐浓，慢慢凝聚成一个巨大地气团。这原本在吞云海上是十分常见的景象，但与此同时...¤As the mist in the distance grew thicker, it gradually condensed into a huge ball of gas. This was a common sight on the Swallowing Cloud Sea, but at the same time...
元婴期之前的海兽大都没有灵智，应该不会是想观摩突破的过程，至于分一点灵气，也不至于到如此规模……且再看看吧。¤Most sea beasts before the Nascent Soul stage do not possess intelligence, so they are not likely to be interested in observing the breakthrough process. As for sharing some spiritual energy, it shouldn't be to such a large extent... Let's take a closer look.
附近地天地灵气都在向那个方向汇集，依我看，像是有什么人或是海兽正在突破。¤The spiritual energy of the nearby earth and sky is gathering in that direction. In my opinion, it seems like someone or a sea beast is making a breakthrough.
不错，如此情形老夫也是第一次见到，也算是开了眼界罢。¤Not bad, this is the first time this old man has seen such a situation. It can be considered an eye-opener.
那这些海兽围过去是什么目的？难道想分一点突破的灵气不成？¤What is the purpose of these sea beasts surrounding us? Are they trying to break through for a bit of spiritual energy?
几个时辰之后，一声震天长啸从云雾中传来，一只吞云蟒破云而出，四周瞬间烟消云散。¤A few hours later, a deafening roar that shook the sky echoed through the clouds. A cloud swallowing boa burst out from the clouds, causing the surrounding area to instantly clear of smoke and mist.
好多海兽...恐怕有数百只！这天地异象看来非同寻常，竟能吸引这么多海兽汇聚于此？¤There are many sea beasts...perhaps hundreds of them! This heavenly abnormality seems extraordinary, as it can attract so many sea beasts to gather here?
只见一条乳白色的遗蜕从半空中掉落下来，众海兽一拥而上，片刻便将那遗蜕分食殆尽了。¤Suddenly, a milk-white shed skin fell from mid-air, and the sea beasts rushed towards it, devouring it in no time.
只见约莫几百只筑基、金丹期海兽蹲守在云雾周围，仿佛在等待着什么。¤I saw around a few hundred foundation building and golden core sea beasts squatting around the mist, as if waiting for something.
原来是为了吞云蟒的遗蜕……想必对于低阶海兽来说，这遗蜕也算大补之物吧。¤It turns out that it was for the shed skin of the cloud swallowing boa... I imagine that for low-level sea beasts, this shed skin is also a great supplement.
他似乎在思考着你的{color=#d0380a}答案{/color}，也可能是在考虑你们之间的{color=#d0380a}境界{/color}差距，{color=#d0380a}年龄{/color}之别，{color=#d0380a}阵营{/color}之分或是你的{color=#d0380a}财富资产{/color}...你只能等待他做出选择。¤He seemed to be pondering your {color=#d0380a}answer{/color}, or perhaps considering the disparity in your {color=#d0380a}realms{/color}, age gap, {color=#d0380a}faction{/color} divide, or your {color=#d0380a}wealth{/color}...you can only wait for his decision.
你的大部分想法倒是与我不谋而合...¤Your thoughts align with mine without needing to plan.
你竟然是这么想的...¤You actually think like this...
原来你是这么想的...¤So this is what you were thinking...
她似乎在思考着你的{color=#d0380a}答案{/color}，也可能是在考虑你们之间的{color=#d0380a}境界{/color}差距，{color=#d0380a}年龄{/color}之别，{color=#d0380a}阵营{/color}之分或是你的{color=#d0380a}财富资产{/color}...你只能等待她做出选择。¤She seemed to be thinking about your {color=#d0380a}answer{/color}, or maybe considering the {color=#d0380a}boundary{/color} between you two, the difference in {color=#d0380a}age{/color}, the {color=#d0380a}division{/color} of camps, or your {color=#d0380a}wealth{/color}... you can only wait for her to make a choice.
道不同，不相为谋。我看你还是去找你的那些“正道”朋友们吧。¤The paths are different, we cannot plan together. I suggest you go find your righteous path friends.
自古正邪不两立，我恐怕不能答应你...¤Since ancient times, the righteous and the evil cannot coexist, I'm afraid I can't agree with you...
道友的红颜知己如此之多，恐怕也不差我这一个了吧？¤Fellow daoist, with so many confidantes who are also your beloved ones, do you really need one more like me?
我们之间的年龄差距甚大，即便真的结为道侣，只怕日后也只会徒增烦恼罢了...¤The age difference between us is significant. Even if we were to become dao partners, I fear it would only bring more troubles in the future...
我们之间的境界差距甚大，即便真的结为道侣，只怕日后也只会徒增烦恼罢了...¤My cultivation level is vastly different from yours. Even if we were to truly become Dao companions, it would likely only lead to more troubles in the future...
道友连洞府都尚未开辟，现在讨论这些恐怕还太早了些吧...¤Fellow daoist, it may be a bit premature to discuss these matters when even the cave has yet to be established.
哈哈哈，{shidi}既然已经筑基，门派藏经阁内的地阶功法也可以随意借阅，哪里还需要学那些外门的粗浅招式。¤Hahaha, {shidi} since you have already completed foundation building, you can freely borrow the earth-ranked skills from the hidden manual pavilion of the sect. Why bother learning those shallow external sect techniques?
另外，每年的七月份，我都会在宗门广场进行讲法，帮助外门弟子解答一些修炼上的问题。你如果在修炼中遇到了瓶颈，到时可以来这里听讲。¤In addition, every July, I will explain the rules at the sect plaza and help outer disciples solve problems in their cultivation. If you encounter any bottlenecks in your practice, you can come here to listen.
你要勤勉修习，不得懈怠。¤You must diligently study and not be negligent.
{shidi}，今日怎么想起来找我了？¤{shidi}, why did you suddenly come to me today?
我派目前还有授业的有三位长老，分别是火云，苍坤\r和正阳三位前辈，你想了解哪一位？¤There are currently three elders in our sect who are still teaching, namely Flamecloud, Cang Kun, and Zheng Yang, three senior members. Which one would you like to learn more about?
本派外门弟子的法术皆由我来传授，如果你的{color=#d0380a}修为进境{/color}有所提升，就能来我这里学习新的法术。¤I am the one responsible for teaching spells to outer disciples of this sect. If your cultivation has improved, you can come to me to learn new spells.
还有别的事么？¤Is there anything else?
是我输了。¤I lost.
你输了。¤You lost.
回去复命吧。¤Go back and report.
你在药园之中来回巡视。¤You patrol back and forth in the medicine garden.
不愧是我{SayStcVal=928}的药田，灵气之浓郁，吐纳都顺畅了几分。¤Truly worthy of being my {SayStcVal=928} herbs field, the spiritual energy is so abundant that my tuana has become smoother.
哼，这点实力也敢来打扰本座清修？¤Hmph, you dare to disturb my cultivation with such weak strength?
但别说回应，四近连蝉鸣鸟叫，妖兽呼嚎皆是难察，反倒是有微风轻拂木叶之声传入你耳中。¤However, forget about any response. The sound of cicadas and birds can be heard nearby, while the roars of spirit beasts are hard to detect. Instead, you can hear the sounds of leaves rustling in the wind.
只要别拖太久，被发现就好。¤As long as it's not dragged out too long, it's okay to be discovered.
咳，咳咳，道友，不，前，前辈，我这就把秘术交予你，请，咳咳咳，饶我一命。¤*Cough cough* Fellow Daoist, no, Senior, I will now impart the secret arts to you. Please, *cough cough* spare my life.
但只三息时间，那妖人如烂泥般瘫倒在地。在你犹豫着是否要上前查看之时，他的躯壳更是如同体内灵气被引爆一般，炸裂开来。¤However, in just three breaths' time, that demonic person collapsed onto the ground like rotten mud. As you hesitated whether to go forward and examine it, its body suddenly exploded as if its spiritual energy had been detonated from within.
估摸着他不一定将秘术放在储物袋内，于是你也不急着了结此人，而是打算等他交出秘术后再动手。既可夺得秘术，又不会让星铃儿反感，称得上是一举两得。¤Estimating that he may not necessarily keep the secret arts in his storage pouch, you do not rush to settle the matter with him. Instead, you plan to wait until he hands over the secret arts before taking action. This way, you can obtain the secret arts without causing any animosity from Star Bell, which can be considered a win-win situation.
此人出手极快，连我也未能察觉他潜伏在附近。说不定是那女娃娃的前辈师尊一类。¤This person's hand is extremely fast. I didn't even notice him lurking nearby. Maybe he is a senior or mentor of that little girl.
敢问阁下是何人？¤May I ask who you are, senior?
怀着对本座的畏惧逝去吧！磔磔磔！¤Vanish with fear of this seat! Chopping, chopping, chopping!
两三息之后，这妖人便是软倒在地，再无声息。似乎是已经死去。¤After two or three breaths, the demon fell softly to the ground without any sound. It seemed to already be dead.
先不说残骸四散险些波及你，他身上及周遭的储物袋等物事更是不保。¤Let's not discuss how the debris almost hit you, the storage pouches and other things around him are also not guaranteed to be safe.
你对着这“邪教教主”的残骸僵持一会后，见确是无人出声，便试探着走出大殿，而后四处寻找星铃儿的身影。¤After facing off against the remains of the heretical leader for some time without hearing a sound, you cautiously walked out of the main hall and began searching for the figure of Star Bell in all directions.
但未等他出手，一道惨白光芒从门外激射而入，你还未来得及反应已是没入那跪服在地的妖人眉心，后者当即如承受万蛊噬心般惨叫连连。¤But before he could act, a bleak white light shot in from the door, and before he could react, it had already entered the brow of the demon kneeling on the ground, who screamed in agony as if being devoured by countless heart eaters.
可此处哪还有那妮子的踪影。久寻不得后，你也只好悻悻离去。¤But there was no trace of that girl here. After a long search, you had no choice but to leave begrudgingly.
既然前辈不愿现身，我也没必要在此久留了。去星铃儿道友那边看看吧。¤Since senior is unwilling to show up, I see no need to linger here. Let's go see fellow daoist Star Bell.
请问是哪位前辈出手相助？晚辈感激不尽！¤May I ask which senior is here to offer their help? Your assistance is greatly appreciated!
也好，本座就拿你来树立声威好了！¤Very well, I'll use you to establish my prestige!
但别说回应，四近连蝉鸣鸟叫，妖兽呼嚎都不可闻，甚至风声都停滞下来，可谓是寂静异常。¤But there was not even a response, only the chirping of cicadas and the chirping of birds nearby. The howling of spirit beasts couldn't be heard, and even the sound of the wind seemed to have come to a halt. It was an extremely quiet scene.
突如其来的状况让你也是为之一惊！¤The sudden situation also surprised you!
（解决了，快去星道友那边看看吧。）¤(I've resolved the issue, quickly go check with our star fellow daoist.)
嗯，星铃儿说奉门派之命前来，有个前辈暗中守护倒也不无可能。¤Well, Star Bell said she came on orders from the sect, so it's not impossible that a senior is secretly protecting her.
算你识相。¤You're smart.
只见一道惨白光芒从门外激射而入，你还未来得及反应已是没入那跪服在地的妖人眉心，后者当即如承受万蛊噬心般惨叫连连。¤You see a pale white light shooting in from outside the door. Before you could react, it plunges into the forehead of the demonic being kneeling on the ground. The latter screams in agony, as if being devoured by countless heart eaters.
我于阵法一途钻研多年，如今略有小成。你可有兴趣挑战一番？¤I have been studying array formations for many years and have become slightly accomplished. Are you interested in challenging me?
只不过前提是——你就如此袖手离去。¤But the premise is—— that you leave with your hands in your sleeves.
你觉得堂堂{$shili}也不过如此，兴致缺缺的离开了。¤You feel that such a magnificent {$shili} is nothing more than this, and you leave with a lack of interest.
晚辈来这{$shili}原意也不过是借贵派神通功法一观，只不过此间修士不由分说便是驱逐晚辈，才不得已催动功法自卫，若是前辈能让晚辈如愿，自然会就此离去。¤I came to this {$shili} wanting to observe your sect's divine skills and techniques as a junior. However, the cultivators here immediately drove me away without giving me a chance. I had no choice but to use my own techniques to defend myself. If senior could allow me to observe as I intended, I would leave peacefully.
呵呵，{$shili}有难，老朽出手自是理所应当，不过这宁州如今是风起云涌，怕是在不久后会有偌大变故，老朽还指着用这把老骨头再为宁州出点力。¤Ha ha, it is only natural for me to lend a hand when {$shili} is in trouble. However, this Ningzhou is currently experiencing turbulent times like clouds rising up. There may be significant changes in the near future. I am relying on these old bones to help Ningzhou once again.
不如{$称呼}就此离去，老朽也就当这徒孙是与人切磋时被失手击杀，不再过多追究。也让老朽得以在此界再停留几日，可好？¤{$称呼}, why don't we just leave it at this? This old man will treat this as if his disciple was accidentally killed during a duel, and I won't pursue it any further. This way, I can stay in this world for a few more days, is that alright with you?
附近重伤的{$shili}修士无不是一脸愤懑的看着你。明明上门抢夺功法，却还不动声色的将责任推到受害者身上，他们即便是修练数百年，也未曾见过如此厚颜无耻之人。¤The nearby heavily injured cultivators with {$shili} all glare at you with anger. Clearly, you came to steal techniques, yet you calmly shift the blame onto the victim. Even if they have cultivated for hundreds of years, they have never seen such shameless behavior.
好说好说。¤Good, good. No problem.
但还未等你高兴，更强的{$shili}修士已然到场。问清情形后，也不磨叽，直接催动神通向你袭来。¤But before you could even feel happy, a stronger cultivator with higher {$shili} has arrived. After clarifying the situation, they didn't waste any time and immediately used their divine skill to attack you.
这就化神了？改存档了吧？¤Are you undergoing deity transformation? Did you save your progress?
在你强大的实力下，这场战斗被迅速结束了，以至于{$shili}的修士还没来得及通知宗内强者。¤Under your immense power, this battle was quickly ended, to the point that even cultivators with a strength of {$shili} were unable to alert the strong members within their sect.
缠斗几回合后，你佯装强攻卖了个破绽，对手如你所料全力进攻。躲过迎面而来的神通后，你趁对方还未反应过来便是全力爆发，终于是结束了这场战斗。¤After several rounds of intense combat, you feigned a strong attack and exposed a weakness, causing your opponent to launch a full-scale attack as you anticipated. You dodged their incoming divine skill and launched a fierce counterattack before they could react, finally ending the battle.
此人仅是袖手站在死去的元婴修士旁，身上没有半分灵气或是神识波动，仿若一个普通凡人，但你却感觉到此间万物都会受他驱使。¤This person was standing idle next to the deceased nascent soul cultivator, with no sign of spiritual energy or soul sense, seemingly just an ordinary mortal. However, you could sense that everything around him would obey his command, as if he were a cultivator with a divergent spirit.
{$称呼}，就此罢手吧。¤{$Addressing}, let's put an end to this.
纵有守山大阵作为倚仗，{$shili}的元婴修士也终于还是倒在你手下，落得个阵毁人亡的下场。\n好在除作为阵眼的元婴修士之外，一众修士最多是身负重伤，倒也保得性命无虞。{$shili}还留有重建阵法然后迅速补充实力如初的可能。¤Even with the formidable Shoushan array as their defense, the nascent soul cultivator with {$shili} finally fell under your hands, resulting in the destruction of the array and the death of their disciples. Fortunately, aside from the nascent soul cultivator acting as the array's core, the rest of the cultivators only suffered from serious injuries and their lives were spared. {$shili} remains intact and can be rebuilt, allowing for a swift recovery of their strength.
在他的示意下，纵是不乐意，{$shili}幸存的长老也只得派一人带你前往藏经阁。¤Under his signal, even if they were unwilling, the surviving elders with {$shili} would have to send one person to take you to the Hidden Manual Pavilion.
糟糕，看来你拿走的碎壳是整个海底阵法的支点。现在没有了阵法的压制，无尽海渊的灵力乱流很快就会把这里毁掉。¤Oops, it looks like the broken shell you took was a key support point of the entire underwater array. Without the array's suppression, the spiritual energy of the endless abyss will soon cause chaos and destroy this place.
难怪区区海兽能够有如此高深的阵法造诣，恐怕就是从这片碎壳之中感悟而来的。¤No wonder the sea beast has such profound knowledge in arrays. I am afraid it is enlightened from this shattered shell.
你看着碎壳上的灵纹，竟不由自主的陷入了一种顿悟的状态...¤As you look at the spirit patterns on the broken shell, you find yourself involuntarily entering a state of enlightenment...
九幽狡猾无比，这次你没有再给他逃跑的机会，而是一剑彻底的将他的元神剿灭。¤Jiuyou was cunning and had no chance to escape this time. Instead, you completely destroyed his yuan god with a sword.
随着九幽气息渐渐消散，另一股轻微的灵力波动引起了你的注意。你顺着灵力感应，在九幽遗骸下方的阵法中心，找到了一块被嵌入其中的碎壳。¤As the Nine Nether Qi dissipated, another spiritual fluctuation caught your attention. Following the spiritual sense, you found a fragment embedded in the center of the array under the Nine Nether Ruins.
这碎壳上铭刻的灵纹似乎颇为玄妙，是阵法么？¤The spirit inscriptions carved on this broken shell seem quite mystical, is it an array?
快离开这里！¤Quickly leave this place!
这碎壳，究竟是...¤What is this broken shell...
不...这不...可能...¤No... this is impossible...
正当你沉浸于感悟中时，整个海底巢穴开始剧烈震动起来，以九幽残骸为中心，一个巨大的漩涡逐渐形成。¤Just as you were immersed in enlightenment, the entire undersea lair began to shake violently. A huge whirlpool gradually formed around the Nine Nether Remnants at the center.
九幽的瞳孔逐渐黯淡，漫天挥舞的巨大触手跌落在地。一代妖圣，就此陨落...¤The pupils of Jiuyou gradually dimmed, and the huge waving tentacles fell to the ground. The generation of demon saints fell...
看，这碎壳上铭刻的灵纹和我们刚刚遇到的那个四象聚灵阵好像是一样的！¤Look, the spirit patterns engraved on this shattered shell seem to be the same as the four elephants gathering spirit array we just encountered!
人类与妖兽不同，各家族，门派势力在千万年来都留下了大量的功法传承。¤Humans are different from spirit beasts. Various ethnic groups and sects have left behind a large amount of technique inheritance over the past millions of years.
九幽大圣...的确是不值一提。大圣可能还不知道，前段时间...¤The Nine Underworld Saint...is really not worth mentioning. The Great Saint may not know yet, but some time ago, I don't know...
这幻雾境只是本座日常修炼吐纳时自动形成的，并非刻意操控。不过即便如此，也不是一般人可以随随便便就破解的。¤The Phantom Fog Realm is only naturally formed during my daily cultivation of Tuana, and not intentionally manipulated. Even so, it is not something that ordinary people can easily unravel.
本座平日在幻雾境隐修，极少离开吞云海，对于那些虚无飘渺的海上传闻了解的倒是不多。¤I usually practice seclusion in the Phantom Fog Realm and rarely leave the Swallowing Cloud Sea. I don't really know much about the rumors floating around in the vast sea.
我们吞云蟒一族，与你们人类突破的方式虽说大不相同，却也殊途同归。¤Our Cloud Swallowing Boa clan may have a vastly different breakthrough method compared to humans, but we are ultimately striving towards the same goal.
哈哈哈，你们人类虽说先天天赋不足，但潜力却也是最大的。小友能有如今修为，想必也有不少奇遇与感悟吧。¤Hahaha, although we humans may have inferior innate talents, our potential is also the greatest. Young friend, with your current level of cultivation, you must have had many wonderful encounters and enlightenments.
大圣既然可以化为人形，可有兴趣到人类的世界游历一番？¤Since the Great Sage can transform into a human form, would you be interested in exploring the human world?
你同吞云大圣聊起了之前没有提到过的成长经历，又讲到海上的奇闻异事。只见吞云大圣时而点头附和、时而质疑询问，时而释然发笑，竟是听的格外认真。¤You talked to Cloud Swallowing Saint about your previously unmentioned experiences of growth, as well as strange events on the sea. The Cloud Swallowing Saint nodded along, questioned and doubted at times, and even laughed with relief, showing an unusual level of attentiveness to your words.
有一定修炼资质的人便会被各势力收入门下，从最基础的功法学起，便算是踏入仙途了。¤Those with an aptitude for cultivation will be taken in by various factions and taught the most basic techniques to start their journey to becoming immortals.
本座虽已突破化神，但对于水道与气道以外的其它大道仍是一窍不通，不知从何入手。¤Although this humble one has already undergone the breakthrough deity transformation, I am still ignorant about other roads beyond the water and qi dao, not knowing where to start.
说着，你便运起了幻雾法门，展示给吞云大圣。¤As you spoke, you activated the Mirage Mist technique and presented it to the Cloud Swallowing Saint.
当年，我以一本最为基础的《吐纳功法》进入了修真者的行列，如今……¤Back then, I entered the world of cultivators with the most fundamental 《exhalation technique》. And now...
只见吞云大圣运起了不知名的云雾功法，瞬间周遭云雾缭绕。你一边观察着这云雾的走向，一边向他请教，感触颇深。¤You see the Cloud Swallowing Saint using an unknown cloud technique, instantly surrounding himself with swirling clouds. While observing the direction of the clouds, you ask him to teach you, deeply moved by your experience.
哈哈哈，{$chenghu}有所不知，我们吞云蟒一族身具上古神兽玄武之血脉，天生便对操控水雾之道领悟极高。¤Ha ha ha, {$chenghu}, you don't know that our Cloud Swallowing Boa clan has the blood of the ancient divine beast Black Tortoise running through our veins, giving us a natural enlightenment in manipulating mist and water.
确实……人妖殊途。无论如何，如果最终不能飞升，也只是空忙活一场。¤Indeed...humans and monsters have different paths. However, no matter what, if one cannot eventually ascend, it is only a futile effort.
领悟神通：{color=#d0380a}雾隐术{/color}¤Enlightenment of Divine Skills: {color=#d0380a}Mist Concealment{/color}
我族世代在此修炼，无论功法、修行方式还是此地灵气都是最为适合我族的。¤My clan has been cultivating here for generations. Both the cultivation techniques and the method of cultivation are perfectly suited for us, as well as the spiritual energy of this place.
人类修士虽说各系大道皆可参悟，但许多人终其一生也只是初窥门径而已，如何比的上大圣。¤Although human cultivators can comprehend various paths of dao, many of them only have a first glimpse of the dao throughout their entire life. How can they compare to the great saints?
即便是第一次尝试突破失败了，也已初具仙格，日后再次尝试突破，成功的机会便会高上一些。¤Even if the first attempt at breakthrough failed, it has already begun to possess celestial qualities. The chances of succeeding in the next attempt will be higher.
我想，在天劫来临前，我们应该尽可能提升自己的境界。境界越高，能够成功飞升的机会也一定会更高。¤I think, before the heavenly tribulation arrives, we should try to improve our realm as much as possible. The higher the realm, the higher the chance of successfully ascending.
不过百余年前，本座曾与那无尽海渊的九幽大圣起过一些冲突。只是没想到同为化神期修为，他居然未曾出手便逃回他的老巢去了。如此一来，本座倒也不屑于再与他有何争斗了。¤However, more than a hundred years ago, I had some conflicts with the Nine Underworld Saints of the Endless Abyss. It's just that I never expected that although we both have reached the Void Transformation stage, he actually fled back to his lair without taking action. In this case, I don't bother to fight with him anymore.
我也曾学过一门神通，唤作幻雾术，想来倒是与大圣的吐纳术有几分相似之处。¤I also once studied a divine skill known as Mirage Mist Art, which seems to have some similarities with the Great Sage's Tuana.
想不到人类的世界还有这么多趣事，不错……不错。¤I didn't expect there to be so many interesting things in the world of humans. Not bad...not bad.
人类的世界固然有趣，对于我来说却也只能作为修炼之余的消遣罢了，只有早日飞升才是正途。¤The human world may be interesting, but for me it can only serve as a pastime after cultivation. Ascending as soon as possible is the true path.
你同吞云大圣聊起了你在宁州的成长经历，又讲到海上的奇闻异事。只见吞云大圣时而点头附和、时而质疑询问，时而释然发笑，竟是听的格外认真。¤You chatted with Cloud Swallowing Saint about your upbringing in Ningzhou and shared stories of the curious happenings at sea. Cloud Swallowing Saint nodded in agreement, questioned in inquiry, and even laughed at times, showing a particularly attentive ear.
这是为何？¤What is this for?
有趣...有趣...未曾想到人类也能掌握此等操控云雾的神通，似与我族功法同源，但也有一些独特的变化。¤Interesting...very interesting...I never thought that humans could also master this divine skill of controlling clouds and mist. It seems to have the same origin as our clan's techniques, but with some unique changes.
难怪本座察觉无尽海渊似乎有了一些异动...¤No wonder I have sensed some changes in the endless abyss...
就我而言，化神期与过往其它境界是完全不同的。此前突破至化神中期，为我带来的提升已远超过去所有突破的总和。¤As for me, the void transformation stage is completely different from my previous breakthroughs. The improvement brought by my breakthrough to the mid void transformation stage far exceeds the sum of all my past breakthroughs.
{$chenghu}想问何事？¤What does {$chenghu} wish to inquire about?
不错，若道友日后若遇到新的奇闻异事，还请务必来此地分享一番。¤Not bad. Fellow Daoist, if you encounter any new strange events in the future, please be sure to come here and share with us.
你将自己在无尽海渊斩杀九幽大圣一事向吞云一一道来...¤You will tell Cloud Swallowing about how you killed the Nine Underworld Saints in the Endless Abyss...
（摇了摇头）虽然你所描述的世界很有趣，可惜并不适合我。¤(shaking his head) Unfortunately, the world you described is very interesting, but it is not suitable for me.
小友还未突破化神，想必对于天劫之事还不太清楚。等小友成功突破后，自然能感应到日后天劫降临的时间。¤The young friend has not yet undergone deity transformation, so he may not be very familiar with the tribulation. Once he successfully breaks through, he will naturally be able to sense the time when the tribulation will arrive in the future.
你向吞云大圣作了一揖，便意犹未尽地离开了此地。此番奇遇，你只觉受益匪浅。¤You took a bow to the Cloud Swallowing Saint before leaving, feeling somewhat reluctant to depart. This was a wonderful encounter, and you felt enriched by the experience.
当年，我以家族遗留的一本《五府锻元决》进入了修真者的行列，如今……¤In those years, I entered the ranks of cultivators with a family legacy of the 'Five Palace Forging Elemental Technique'. And now...
那九幽虽说实力不如我，但毕竟也是化神期妖圣...真没想到{$chenghu}居然有这样的实力。¤Although the strength of Jiuyou is inferior to mine, he is still a deity-level monster at the Void Transformation stage... I never expected {$chenghu} to have such power.
所谓的化神，实际便是蜕凡化仙的过程。小友只需在突破的过程中，细细体会仙凡之别。¤The so-called deity transformation is actually the process of shedding mortal traits and becoming a celestial being. Young friend only needs to carefully comprehend the difference between mortal and heavenly during the breakthrough process.
不错，你们人类的功法确实种类繁多，可惜大部分并非妖兽能够修炼的。¤Not bad, your human techniques are indeed diverse, but unfortunately, most of them cannot be cultivated by spirit beasts.
人类修炼的方式与我族大相径庭，我族天生便有吞云吐雾的本领，通过吐纳感悟灵气与云雾的流动，便可悟得水气之道。¤The way humans cultivate is vastly different from our race. Our innate ability to swallow clouds and spit mist allows us to comprehend the flow of spiritual energy and fog through tuana and enlighten ourselves on the path of water vapor.
人类若想感悟大道，就必须抓住日常奇遇与论道交流时灵光一闪所得到的思绪，潜心感悟数十年时间，方能有所成就。¤If humans want to enlighten themselves with the dao, they must seize the thoughts obtained during wonderful encounters and debates where spiritual light flashes during everyday interactions, and dedicate themselves to enlightenment for decades to achieve something.
今日当真所谈甚欢。大圣要专心修炼，在下便不打扰大圣了，有缘再会。¤Today's conversation was truly enjoyable. The Great Sage wishes to focus on cultivation, so I won't disturb him any longer. We will meet again if fate allows.
道友既已突破化神，想必对于天劫已经也感应。¤Fellow daoist, since you have already undergone deity transformation breakthrough, you must have sensed the tribulation already.
你二人又聊起了其它{color=#d0380a}海域奇闻{/color}，{color=#d0380a}人生大道{/color}...你只觉仙路漫漫，命途多舛。良久，你们不约而同地陷入了沉默，你便知道，大概到了分别的时候。¤You two started chatting about other {color=#d0380a}strange stories of the sea{/color}, the {color=#d0380a}way of life{/color}... You couldn't help but feel that your immortal path was long and troublesome. After a while, you both fell silent, knowing that it was probably time to part ways.
不知你们人类修士又是如何开始修炼的？¤Do you know how us human cultivators began our cultivation?
这就是诞生自九霄雷狱的雷灵吧，观其灵气波动足以匹配元婴后期强者。¤This is the thunder spirit born from the Nine Heavens' Thunder Prison. Its spiritual energy fluctuations are sufficient to match a late nascent soul expert.
一团雷电在云中若隐若现的闪动，一阵阵先天灵气从它身上散发而出。¤A thunderous mass flickers within the clouds, emanating waves of sky spirit energy from it.
道友目前在千流岛已小有名气，出于对道友实力的慎重考虑，我们的赔率将会下调些许，望道友见谅。¤Fellow Daoist, you have gained some reputation on Myriad Rivers Island. Out of careful consideration for your strength, we will slightly lower our odds. We hope you understand.
道友真是修为过人，这是你的押注。¤Fellow Daoist, your cultivation is truly outstanding. This is your bet.
道友还是勤加修炼后再来参赛吧。¤Fellow daoist, it would be better to focus on cultivation before participating in the competition.
“噗”的一声巨响传来，只见滚滚黑雾从九幽大圣体内不断喷出，翻滚着将他笼罩在其中。¤With a loud sound of pu, rolling black mist continuously spewed out from within the Nine Underworld Saint, enveloping him in it.
不好，他是要逃跑！¤Not good, he is going to escape!
这黑雾不仅能阻挡视线，还有遮蔽神识的效果，一时之间让你无法辨别九幽所处的方位。¤This black mist not only obstructs vision, but also has the effect of blocking soul sense, making it impossible for you to distinguish the direction of the Nine Underworlds for a moment.
你连掐法诀，冲进黑雾之中，向着海底追了过去...¤You pinch the spell, rush into the black mist, and chase after the sea...
人类...本座...倒是小瞧你了...¤Human...I...have underestimated you...
......我还是第一次见到有人用灵气火焰烤肉的，看在你让我大开眼界的份儿上就不要你赔我的兔肉了。¤...This is the first time I have seen someone use spiritual flame to barbecue meat. Since you have amazed me, I won't make you compensate me for my rabbit meat.
你觉得此人十分眼熟，但又一时想不起来她是谁。¤You feel that this person is very familiar, but for a while you can't remember who she is.
篝火升起来了，你要把肉架在什么地方呢？¤The bonfire has risen, where do you want to put the meat on?
好你个{FirstName}{LastName}！英杰会上的事倒是全忘光了！¤Good for you, {FirstName}{LastName}! You've completely forgotten about the young hero's tournament!
她掀开锅盖，一股浓郁的肉香从锅里传来，本不怎么饥饿的你此刻也被勾起了食欲。¤She lifted the lid of the pot and a rich meat aroma wafted out, even though you weren't particularly hungry, your appetite was piqued at the moment.
用什么来烤肉呢？¤What do you use to barbecue meat?
看起来兔肉快烤好了，你决定¤Looks like the rabbit meat is almost done roasting, you decide.
你见着时机差不多时开炉取丹，几颗飘着烤肉香气的丹药被你收入瓶中。¤When you saw that the timing was about right, you started to refine pills. Several pills with a scent of roasted meat were collected into a bottle by you.
不用放在心上，先前见过你一面，我对自己的记忆力还是很有信心的。¤Don't worry about it. I've met you before, and I have confidence in my memory.
偷偷摸摸不像好人！说！你在这里准备干什么！¤Sneaking around like this doesn't seem like you're a good person! Speak up! What are you planning to do here!
我想得果然没错，这锅汤闻起来就好喝。¤I thought right, this soup smells delicious.
你找了一棵高大的树木，躺在粗壮的树枝上美美地睡了一觉。¤You found a tall tree and slept soundly on its strong branches.
要不要换个角度再看看呢？你看了看周围，再回过头时却发现篝火旁的人不见了。¤Would you like to take a different perspective and look again? You looked around and turned back, only to find that the person next to the campfire was gone.
放什么调料进去呢？¤What seasoning should I put in?
你用随身携带的小刀割下一块兔肉递给林沐心，她迫不及待地接了过去。¤You cut off a piece of rabbit meat with the small knife you carried and handed it to Lin Muxin. She eagerly accepted it.
来的路上宰了只兔妖，肥硕又壮实，看起来就肉质鲜美。¤On the way here, I slaughtered a rabbit demon. It was plump and strong, and looked very delicious.
你将手中的丹药递给林沐心，她面色古怪地坐在一旁，看起来似乎在犹豫要不要接过来。¤You hand the pill in your hand to Lin Muxin. She sits on the side with a strange expression, seemingly hesitant to take it.
呸呸呸！你烤的这也叫肉？¤Tut tut tut! You call this meat that you grilled?
呕——¤Ouch——
吃饱喝足后，你们轮流守夜直到天亮。¤After eating and drinking their fill, you take turns keeping watch until daybreak.
你半信半疑地将丹药放进了嘴里。¤You put the pill in your mouth, half believing and half doubting.
你恍然大悟，连忙叫出她的名字。¤You suddenly realize and quickly called out her name.
你提气轻身，悄悄地靠了过去。只看到燃起的篝火上似乎架了一口锅，把后面的人挡了个严实。¤You lift your qi and use light body technique, quietly approaching. You can only see a pot cooking over the burning campfire, blocking the view of the people behind.
她叹着气给你盛了碗热汤，端起自己的汤碗小心地喝了起来。¤She sighed and filled a bowl with hot soup for you, then picked up her own bowl and drank carefully.
“还是假装没听见吧......”¤Let's just pretend we didn't hear it...
唉，一个人历练就是麻烦，要是有个厨娘跟着就好了......¤Alas, it is troublesome to cultivate alone. It would be great to have a chef maid with me…
你讪讪地喝了一口，浓汤的鲜美让你忘记了丹药的怪味。¤You awkwardly took a sip, the delicious taste of the thick broth making you forget the strange flavor of the elixir.
你先坐，我得看一眼锅里的汤。¤You have a seat first, I need to take a look at the soup in the pot.
不远处的丛林仿佛闪烁着点点火光，或许是和你相同的在林中落脚的修士，要过去看看吗？¤In the nearby forest, dots of firelight seem to flicker. Perhaps they belong to cultivators like yourself taking refuge in the woods. Would you like to go check it out?
怎么是你？¤What are you doing here?
真是无巧不成书，哈哈。¤It really isn't a book without coincidences, haha.
我叫驯养的灵兽烤肉都比你做得好吃！¤My name is Tamed Spirit Beast and even my roasted meat is tastier than yours!
哇！好香啊！没想到你厨艺这么棒，看来找你烤肉真是个正确的决定！¤Wow! It smells so good! I didn't expect your cooking skills to be so amazing. It looks like asking you to barbeque was the right decision!
天色渐晚，最后一丝阳光消失在密林茂盛的枝叶中时你停下赶路的脚步，打算暂时在林中某棵大树上休憩。¤As the sky gradually darkened, and the last ray of sunlight disappeared among the dense forest's lush branches and leaves, you stopped your journey and planned to take a break on a large tree within the forest.
不用担心，炼丹我很擅长的。¤Don't worry, I am very skilled in alchemy.
我叫林沐心，走吧，我们去那边聊。¤My name is Lin Muxin. Let's go chat over there.
我赶路到这片林子打算休息时看到前面有火光，一时好奇就过来打探打探......¤When I was hurrying to this forest and planned to take a rest, I saw a fire in front of me. Out of curiosity, I came over to investigate...
像是做出了什么极为重大的决定一样，她屏住呼吸吞下了你递来的丹药。¤It was like she had made a very important decision as she held her breath and swallowed the pill you handed to her.
你看得眼睛都直了，哈哈！¤You're staring so hard your eyes are popping out, haha!
你讪讪地喝了一口，浓汤的鲜美不禁让你为化成灰的那些兔肉感到惋惜。¤You sipped the soup sheepishly and couldn't help but feel regret for the rabbit meat that had turned to ashes due to its deliciousness.
给你，尝尝看吧。¤Here, try it.
谁担心这个啊......¤Who worries about this...
我还有要事在身，先行一步。¤I still have important matters to attend to, so I will leave first.
林沐心看了看坐在一旁的你，噗嗤一声笑了出来。¤Lin Muxin looked at you sitting next to her and burst out laughing with a pu chi sound.
林沐心的脸色这才好看了一些，摆了摆手示意你去篝火那边。¤Lin Muxin's expression improved slightly, and she motioned for you to go to the campfire over there.
你转过身去，借着微弱的火光看清了面前的女子。¤You turned around and, using the faint light of the fire, saw the woman in front of you.
走吧，我们去篝火那边坐着聊。¤Let's go, we'll sit by the bonfire and chat.
一颗丹药而已，不至于这么难吃吧？¤Just a pill, why does it have to taste so bad?
熟练地打开炉子，将肉和调料丢进去，你盘坐在一旁等待丹成。¤Skillfully opening the furnace, you toss in the meat and seasonings and sit cross-legged beside it, waiting for the dancheng.
你打开储物袋，从里面掏出了炼丹炉。¤You open the storage pouch and take out an alchemy furnace.
要在生火前先把兔肉腌制一下吗？¤Do we need to marinate the rabbit meat before starting the fire?
不管怎么说，谢谢你昨天的烤肉。¤Anyway, thank you for the barbecue yesterday.
想喝也可以，调料在柴火那，帮我把剩下的兔肉烤了吧。¤You can drink if you want. The seasoning is over by the firewood. Can you help me grill the rest of the rabbit meat?
你目送着林沐心朝你来时的路走去，似乎还能听见她小声嘀咕着什么。¤You watched as Lin Muxin walked towards you, and it seemed like you could still hear her muttering something under her breath.
嗯...肉汁浓郁，外焦里嫩，调料的用量也刚刚好。这只兔子死得其所，真是太好吃啦！¤Well...the meat juice is rich, crispy outside and tender inside, and the seasoning is just right. This bunny died in a good way, it's really delicious!
没有没有，林沐心这个名字我记得很清楚！¤No, no, I remember the name Lin Muxin very clearly!
你运起灵气，凝聚出一团火焰。孰知用力过猛，兔肉一靠上去便化成了黑灰。¤You activate your spirit energy, condensing a ball of flame. Little did you know, you used too much force and the rabbit meat turned into black ash upon contact.
手艺不错嘛！不过还有进步空间！¤Your skills are pretty good! But there is still room for improvement!
星河剑派历史最悠久的当属剑派，莫被些旁门左道迷花眼睛。¤The Celestial River Sword Sect has the longest history among all the sword sects. Don't be fooled by the flashy techniques of other sects.
清月潭玄妙无比，每个内门弟子都曾于此地获益。¤Qingyue Lake is mysterious and incomparable, and every inner disciple has benefited from it.
唉，只怪天道无常，我再另寻他法吧。¤Alas, blame the unpredictability of the heavens. I will seek another way.
唉？...这是什么？¤Ah?... What is this?
方才你那寒玉损了我的本源，故此现今只能分你几片叶子，好镇压住你师妹体内的毒素。¤Just now, your cold jade damaged my origin, so now I can only give you a few leaves to suppress the toxins in your sister's body.
你察觉到宁紫馨的异样，正要出言阻拦时一道火光燃起。跳动的火焰中宁紫馨的身形若隐若现，她神色恬淡，不同于你们相见时的曲意逢迎，仿佛是迎来真正的解脱般轻笑着。¤As you noticed Ning Zixin's abnormality and were about to speak to stop her, a flame ignited. Within the flickering flames, Ning Zixin's figure appeared vague and indistinct. Her expression was calm and tranquil, unlike when you first met her and she was fawning over you. She laughed lightly, seemingly welcoming true liberation.
唉...世间安得两全法，时也，命也。¤Alas...there is no perfect solution in the world, it's all a matter of timing and fate.
“还不是刚才你那一下子给人家留下心理阴影了......”¤It's because of your earlier actions that left a psychological shadow on them...
你们正欲上前查看时，宁紫馨的身体化作点点光芒，消散在了空气中。¤Just as you were about to move forward to check, Ning Zixin's body turned into dots of light and dissipated into the air.
诶?赠与我？¤Huh? You're giving this to me as a present?
什么也没留下？这可怎么办？！¤Did we leave nothing behind? What are we going to do now?!
哦，多谢。¤Oh, thank you.
想要完全清除的话可配以玉髓芝和风灵花。¤If you want to completely clear it, you can use jadecore shroom and wispfey flower as a combination.
这火麟玉乃是阿姊偶然所得的宝物，今日就赠与你，以报指点之恩。¤This Fire-Lynx Jade was an accidental treasure obtained by Sister A. Today, it is gifted to you as a gesture of gratitude for your guidance.
此恨绵绵...无绝期......¤This hate is so endless... without any resolution...
我苦了五百年，恨了五百年，怨了五百年，没想到最后被你二人一语破道。¤I suffered for five hundred years, hated for five hundred years, resented for five hundred years, but in the end, the two of you shattered my beliefs with just a few words.
师妹......师妹有救了！¤Sister... Sister has been saved!
阿姊，我这就来寻你们了......¤Aunt, I'm coming to find you now...
我轮得到你来可怜么？用不得你们动手，我自己来！¤Is it my turn for you to feel sorry for me? You don't need to act, I'll handle it myself!
后面那个畏畏缩缩的小子，你且过来。¤Come over here, you cowardly little boy.
正如李道友所讲，未来的路在你自己脚下。要光复你香薷一族还是亡命于我这剑下，你自己选择吧。¤As Fellow Daoist Li said, the path to the future lies at your own feet. Whether you choose to restore your Xiangru clan or meet your end beneath my sword, it is up to you to decide.
许是因为心中仍有善念，那火并没有烧去她的本体。待火光消散，一株宁州香薷静静地落在地面上。¤Perhaps due to the presence of a kind thought in her heart, the fire did not burn away her true form. As the flames dissipated, a stalk of Ningzhou Mugwort gently drifted to the ground.
在下替师妹谢过姑娘！¤I thank the girl on behalf of my sister!
如此我便先行离去替师妹解毒，多谢{FirstName}{xiongdi}出手相助！¤I shall depart first to detox my sister. Thank you for your help, {FirstName} {xiongdi}!
叫你过来你就过来，婆婆妈妈像什么男人？¤If I tell you to come over, you should come over. What kind of man acts like a mother-in-law?
我也有宝物赠与{gongzi}。¤I also have treasures to give to {gongzi}.
原来那青蛇劲是前辈留在阵中的传承...¤Originally, the azure snake art was a legacy left by our senior within the formation...
莫非你在幻雾阵中，领悟了我当年留下的传承？¤Could it be that you have attained enlightenment in the mirage mist array and comprehended the legacy I left behind years ago?
这竹山宗内的毒经也差不多被我学尽了，若有机会，倒是还想见识一番巫山的毒蛊之术。¤I've pretty much mastered the toxic scripture within the Bamboo Mountain Sect. If I have the chance, I'd like to witness the art of poison and gu from Mt. Wu.
青麟这小子就是太照顾他那些不成器的师弟师妹了，否则又怎么会让离火门的人在试炼里占尽了上风。¤It's because Qing Lin is too doting on his juniors who aren't capable enough, otherwise how could the Fire Gate Sect dominate in the trials.
原来那青蛇劲是师傅留在阵中的传承...¤Originally, the 'green snake art' was a legacy left by the master in the formation...
哈哈哈，如此也算缘分，这样吧，我便把我当年自创的《青蛇要诀》一并传授于你，希望对你有所帮助。¤Hahaha, it seems that fate has brought us together. In that case, I will teach you the 《Azure Snake Sutra》 that I created years ago. I hope it will be helpful to you.
嗯...你身上的印记？¤Um...the mark on your body?
哈哈哈，如此也算缘分，这样，我正好把我当年自创的《青蛇要诀》一并传授于你，你可要好好修炼。¤Hahaha, such fate. In that case, I will pass down to you the 《Azure Snake Sutra》 that I created back then. You must cultivate diligently.
天魔眼中的魔物最多也不过是地魔一级，灵智又低，算不得多难对付。¤The demon beasts in the Heavenly Devil's Eye are at most just Earth Demon level with low intelligence, and can hardly be considered difficult to deal with.
感激不尽！我名李相书，下一个目的地是{color=#d0380a}武陵城{/color}，道友若有消息可去客栈寻我。¤I am grateful! My name is Li Xiangshu, and my next destination is {color=#d0380a}Wuling City{/color}. Fellow Daoists, if you have any information, please come to the inn to find me.
云汐城的中草堂或许有此物的记载，我回去翻找一番。¤There may be records of this item in Yun Shi City's medicinal herb hall. I will go back and search for it.
实不相瞒，我同师妹前些日子误入上古遗迹。本是福缘美事，熟料那洞府竟处处藏毒。¤To be honest, my fellow sister and I recently stumbled upon an ancient ruin. It was supposed to be a stroke of luck, but we found that the cave was filled with hidden traps and danger at every turn.
道友莫怪，我左思右想实在不知从何说起，只得先问了这么奇怪的问题。¤Fellow Daoist, please don't be offended. I have been pondering this for a long time and don't know where to start, so I had to ask this strange question first.
我二人步步为营，师妹却还是被毒所伤。她出来时面色便欠佳，现在......唉......¤Both of us were being cautious with our every step, but unfortunately, my sister was still injured by the poison. When she came out, she was already looking unwell, and now... sigh...
宗门的藏经阁或许有此物的记载，我回去翻找一番。¤The hidden manual pavilion of the clan may have records of this item, I will go back and search for it.
既是如此，不如我便陪你一同寻找，也开开眼界。¤In that case, why don't I accompany you in your search? It'll also broaden my horizons.
李兄可唤我{FirstName}{LastName}，那么暂此别过。¤Brother Li, you may call me {FirstName}{LastName}, so let us part for now.
我也是在其中偶然得知有味与火铜伴生的草药或能解此毒，便寻了大半宁州打探它的消息。¤I also accidentally learned that there are herbs in Ningzhou that grow alongside fire copper and may be able to cure this poison, so I've been searching for information about them throughout most of Ningzhou.
说来话长，道友可听说过与{color=#d0380a}火铜{/color}伴生的植物？¤Fellow daoist, have you heard of the plants that are born with Fire Copper? The story behind it is a long one.
一位衣着朴素的修士唉声叹气地坐在路旁，看起来十分困扰。{w}{w=0.5}¤A cultivator dressed in simple clothing sat on the roadside, sighing with a troubled look. {w}{w=0.5}
火铜？据说{color=#d0380a}沃焦山{/color}内盛产火铜，但那地方焦金流石，怎么可能有植物生长，道友莫不是在消遣在下？¤Fire copper? It is said that {color=#d0380a}Inferno Mountain{/color} is rich in fire copper, but the place is full of scorched earth and rocks. How could any plants grow there? Fellow Daoist, are you just joking with me?
不知这宁州古迹中何等凶险，若有突发情况还望{FirstName}长老多多护佑同门。¤I don't know how dangerous the ancient ruins of Ning Province are. If there are any emergencies, I hope Elder {FirstName} can protect our fellow disciples.
据掌门所言，这宁州古迹中有一处传承火属性绝学之地，我定要前往得之！¤According to the master, there is a place in the Ning Province ancient ruin that inherits the mastery of fire attribute skills. I am determined to go there and obtain it!
掌门曾嘱托我在古迹中寻找些六品的火属性矿石，{FirstName}道友若能帮忙留意一些，我定厚礼相谢。¤The master once instructed me to search for some sixth-grade fire attribute ores in ancient ruins. Fellow daoist {FirstName}, if you can help me keep an eye out, I will gratefully reward you.
很不错。¤Not bad.
暂未开放。¤Not yet open.
你盘膝静坐，五心朝天，闭目凝神，意守丹田，试图调动内外灵气，寻觅一丝突破的感觉，但可惜修为未至巅峰，只得作罢。¤You sit cross-legged, your five senses focused upwards. With closed eyes, you concentrate and keep your awareness in your dantian, attempting to mobilize your internal and external spiritual energy, searching for a sense of breakthrough. Unfortunately, your cultivation has not yet reached its peak, so your efforts are in vain.
你盘膝静坐，慢慢凝聚挤压着灵气，进入了空灵的状态。周身的灵气蠢蠢欲动，突然之间便汹涌澎湃起来，你不断地压缩着涌入丹田内的灵气...良机易逝，你深知必须尽快凝液成丹。¤You sit cross-legged, slowly congealing and squeezing the spiritual energy, entering a ethereal state. The spiritual energy within your body begins to stir and suddenly surges wildly. You continue to squeeze and compress the spiritual energy that is pouring into your dantian... Time is of the essence, and you know you must quickly congeal the liquid array.
你盘膝静坐，经脉与元婴中灵气的运转协调共振，进入空灵的状态。周身的灵气瞬时一凝，刹那间便如排山倒海般汹涌澎湃起来，你冷静地牵引着天地灵气...良机易逝，你深知必须尽快脱凡化神。¤You sat cross-legged, coordinating and resonating the flow of spiritual energy between your meridians and nascent soul, entering a state of emptiness. The spiritual energy within your body condensed instantly, surging and roaring like a tidal wave. You calmly guided the spiritual energy of heaven and earth… Opportunities are fleeting, and you knew that you must quickly undergo a deity transformation and ascend beyond mortal limitations.
你盘膝静坐，将精气神凝于金丹之上，进入空灵的状态。周身的灵气愈动愈缓，似乎正酝酿着什么，刹那之间便汹涌澎湃起来，你不断地吞噬着天地灵气...良机易逝，你深知必须尽快碎丹结婴。¤You sit cross-legged, concentrating your spiritual energy onto your golden core, entering a meditative state. The surrounding spiritual energy slowly begins to stir, as if something is brewing within you. In an instant, a powerful surge of energy erupts as you continue to devour the essence of heaven and earth... Time is of the essence, and you know you must quickly advance and achieve nascent soul formation.
每次境界突破都伴随着巨大的风险，已经做好万全的准备要开始突破了么...？¤Every realm breakthrough comes with great risks. Have you made all the necessary preparations to start the breakthrough?
你盘膝静坐，耐心地搬运灵气，运转周天，逐渐进入了空灵的状态。周身的灵气慢慢激奋起来，疯狂地向丹田涌入，你不断压缩着丹田内的灵气...良机易逝，你深知必须尽快完成筑基。¤You cross your legs and sit quietly as you patiently cultivate spiritual energy, circulating it throughout your body, gradually entering a state of emptiness. The spiritual energy in your body slowly becomes agitated, rushing wildly towards your dantian, which you continuously compress... You know that this opportunity is fleeting, and you must quickly complete your foundation building.
不过我听说{color=#d0380a}碎星商会{/color}好像也搜集过相关的消息，你如果有兴趣，可以去询问一下。¤However, I've heard that the {color=#d0380a}Shattered Star Merchant Guild{/color} has also gathered some relevant information. If you're interested, you can go and inquire.
道友难道是第一次来这片海域？图南漩涡可以说是无尽之海最危险的异象之一了。¤Fellow Daoist, is this your first time in this sea area? The South Tu vortex can be said to be one of the most dangerous phenomena in the Endless Sea.
图南漩涡的位置？我也没见过...毕竟见过的修士都死了。¤The location of the South Tu Whirlpool? I haven't seen it either... After all, all the cultivators who have seen it have died.
哦？大漩涡？¤Oh? The Great Whirlpool?
我知道的消息，都已经告诉道友了。¤I have already told my fellow daoists all the information I know.
竟是如此凶险！看来我若要在海上探索还是避开着点比较好。道友可知这...什么漩涡的大致位置？¤Fellow daoist, it is unexpectedly dangerous here! It seems that it is better to avoid exploring the sea for now. Do you happen to know the approximate location of this... vortex?
那个大漩涡最近好像又出现了，在图南海航行时最好小心点。¤Recently, it seems that the big vortex has reappeared. It's best to be careful when sailing in the South Tu Sea.
多谢道友相告。¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for informing me.
不过漩涡的具体位置我也不太清楚，只是听说遇到图南漩涡还能生还的修士百里无一，甚至听说曾有化神修士仗着修为强闯漩涡，但也未能脱离，就此失去音讯。¤However, I am not certain of the exact location of the maelstrom. I have only heard that not a single cultivator has survived encountering the South Tu Maelstrom, and even rumors suggest that a deity transformation cultivator once attempted to forcibly enter but never resurfaced, disappearing without a trace.
你与炎萧又见到一人正以手中魔晶吸取周围的魔气。¤You and Yan Xiao saw a person absorbing magic qi from the surroundings using a magic crystal in their hand.
而那魔修就没这么从容了。一边是自己面对一个金丹修士还久攻不下，另一边是炎萧对战一个元婴初期和数个金丹后期如入无人之境，两相影响之下这元婴后期魔修出手看似是越来越狠厉，但每每被你防下心中更是越来越焦急。¤But the demonic cultivator was not as calm. On one side, he was struggling to defeat a golden core cultivator, while on the other side, Yan Xiao seemed to be in a battle with ease against an early nascent soul cultivator and several late golden core cultivators. Under these dual influences, the attacks of the late nascent soul demonic cultivator became increasingly fierce, but every time you defended against it, his heart grew more and more anxious.
呦？送上门的肉参。¤Hey? A delivery of root ginseng.
看起来不像普通的石头，但又感受不到一丝灵力的波动，这种情况倒是少见。¤It doesn't look like an ordinary stone, but there's no sense of spiritual energy either. This is quite rare.
没准还有什么特别的研究价值，拿去给采筠阁那些修士鉴定一番好了...¤Maybe it has some special research value. Take it to the Caegyun Pavilion cultivators to appraise it.
这是...?¤Is this...?
没准还有什么特别的研究价值，先拿着罢...¤There may be some special research value, so let's just hold onto it for now...
先四处转转，看看有什么可疑的地方吧...¤Take a look around and see if there's anything suspicious...
囊中羞涩...哎，我还是靠走的吧。¤In embarrassment with an empty purse...sigh, I guess I'll have to rely on walking.
我拿到这情报就可以前往一个秘境了是吗？¤So I can go to a secret realm with this intelligence, right?
这位道友，要来一份我天机阁的情报玉简吗？¤Fellow Daoist, do you want to acquire an Intelligence Jade from our Heaven's Secrets Pavilion?
我天机阁修士行走天下，各地秘境开启的灵气波动自然也多有记录。¤As a cultivator of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, I walk the world and naturally record the spiritual fluctuations that come with the opening of various mystical places.
确实，不过秘境开启时间有限还望道友得到情报后速速前往。¤Indeed, however the time for the secret realm to open is limited. I hope that fellow daoist will quickly make their way there after receiving the intelligence.
嗯，有点长进¤Uh, making a bit of progress.
你这么不经打，以后怎么让我放心把事情交给你去办？¤How can I trust you to handle things in the future if you can't even take a hit?
你眼前是一片破败的灵药田，所幸有一颗{SayStcVal=948}孤零零的立于药田之中。¤In front of you is a broken Spirit Herb Field, fortunately there is a solitary {SayStcVal=948} standing in the middle of the herb field.
你眼前是一片废墟，依稀可以看出这里曾经是一片药田。¤Before your eyes lies a ruins, faintly visible as a former herbs field.
不错，也还是有所收获。¤Not bad, there was still some gain.
神秘声音：念你修为不易，且饶你一命。下次可就没这么简单了。¤Mysterious voice: Given that your cultivation is not easy, I will spare your life this time. But next time won't be as easy.
尽管你非常在意，但是那声音并没有再响起。¤Despite your concern, the sound did not ring again.
只见那使用火灵气的修士灵活地避过一道金刃，四周的火灵气似浪涛般向其右掌奔涌而去。那修士掌中霎时红光大盛，由火灵气组成的巨型手掌似凝实的火焰般朝对手攻去。¤I saw the cultivator using fire spirit energy skillfully dodge a metal blade, as the fire spirit energy around him surged towards his right palm like waves. Suddenly, a bright red light shone from his palm, forming a giant hand made of solid flames composed of fire spirit energy, attacking his opponent.
经过方才的观战，你对此人的实力已有所了解。盘算一番后，你决定趁对方灵力较弱时将他斩于马下。¤After watching the battle just now, you have a good understanding of this person's strength. After some consideration, you decide to strike him down while his spiritual power is weak.
看来那两人已经发现了你的存在，只是一时抽不出时间对付你，你准备...¤It seems that those two have already discovered your existence, but they just can't spare the time to deal with you for now. You are prepared...
而使用金灵气的修士也不落其下，道道金光击打在另一方的灵气护罩上，激起层层猛烈的灵气波动，那护罩几息之间便碎裂开来。¤Meanwhile, cultivators utilizing the golden spiritual energy were not inferior either. Each of their golden light strikes hit the opponent's spiritual shield, causing violent waves of spiritual energy to erupt layer by layer. Within a few breaths, the shield shattered apart.
习得：烈火掌¤Acquired: Fiery Palm.
与其被动等待倒不如主动出击，想到这一点，你冲出丛林向对方发起进攻。¤Rather than waiting passively, it's better to take the initiative and attack. With this in mind, you charge out of the jungle and launch an attack on the opponent.
这攻击同时给你的金之道带来了无尽的启迪，你在其中似乎摸到了些许对抗灵气护罩的独到方式。你屏息牢记这一神通，打算之后再细细研习。¤This strike simultaneously brought endless inspiration to your metal dao, as if you touched upon a unique way to combat spiritual energy shields. You held your breath and memorized this divine skill, planning to study it in detail later.
你盯着那手掌，其中暴戾的灵气似是受了什么制约才凝成这般形状。你本就对火之道有所苦修，如今这神通更是令你对其的领悟更深一层。¤You stare at that palm, where the violent spiritual energy seems to have been restrained to form such a shape. You have already cultivated in the Fire Dao and now this divine skill has deepened your enlightenment on it to level 1.
你心中一喜，急忙拨开植物向前探查，此时两股强劲的神识向你袭来。¤Your heart lifted as you quickly brushed aside the plants and searched ahead. At that moment, two powerful soul senses attacked you.
不消多时那火系修士便落于下风，殒命于几道乱刃下。取胜的金系修士此时已开始落座调息，你要...¤In no time, the fire cultivator fell under the chaotic blade attacks and perished. The victorious golden cultivator has already started to sit down and adjust their breath. What do you want to do next?
你踏上这片岛屿后便听到远处传来激烈的打斗声，询声望去灿金与赤红灵气战成一片，煞是灿烂。想来是道法高深的金系修士与火系修士于此开战，你决定...¤Upon setting foot on this island, you hear sounds of intense fighting in the distance. With your reputation in mind, you head towards the clash of brilliant golden and vivid red spiritual energy. It appears to be a battle between highly skilled cultivators of the metal and fire elements. You decide to...
两人相战正酣，只当是岛上灵兽拨弄树丛发出了声响，并没太过放在心上。¤The two were fighting fiercely, thinking it was just the island's spirit beast rustling through the trees, and didn't pay it too much attention.
你放低身形，尽可能小心地向着打斗的方向前进。穿过层层树丛后你隐约见到前方闪烁的剑光，这片植物后大概就是二人的交战地。¤Lower your body and approach the direction of the fight as carefully as possible. After passing through layers of trees and bushes, you faintly see the flickering sword light ahead, and behind these plants is probably where the two are fighting.
只见那使用火灵气的修士挥手便是一道熊熊烈焰组成的手掌向对方袭去，这攻击来势汹汹，迅猛万分。你虽不晓得其中门道，却也不禁暗叹一声好掌法！¤I saw the cultivator using fire spirit Qi wave his hand and a palm made of blazing flames struck towards the opponent. This strike was fierce and extremely fast. Although you may not understand the details of it, you couldn't help but sigh at the skillful technique!
习得：千钧斩¤Learned: Thousand-ton Slash
而使用金灵气的修士不知用了什么神通生生抗住了烈火掌的攻击，闪身便是几道凌厉的金光击打在对方的灵气护罩上。原本结实牢靠的护罩在接连的攻击下泛起猛烈的灵气波动，几息之间便化作点点灵光消散在空气中。¤While using golden spiritual energy, a cultivator who knows what divine skill was able to withstand the fiery palm strike. In a flash, several sharp strikes of golden light hit the opponent's spiritual energy shield. The previously sturdy shield was shaken by the successive attacks and quickly dissipated into a few strands of spiritual light within a matter of moments.
你感受到两股神识无情地碾过你的识海，幸好你修为强盛，这两人的神识并未对你造成什么影响。¤You feel two soul senses ruthlessly crushing through your sea of consciousness, fortunately your cultivation is strong and these two people's soul senses did not have any effect on you.
你趁对方还没发现你，迅速催动遁术离开了此地。¤You quickly used your mobility technique to escape from this place before the other party could discover you.
不消多时那火系修士便落于下风，殒命于几道乱刃下。取胜的金系修士此时已开始寻找你的踪迹，你要...¤Before long, the fire cultivator was defeated and fell under the chaotic blades, losing their life. The victorious gold cultivator has now started to search for your whereabouts, so you must...
你对他们的威胁不以为意，依旧藏身丛林中窥探着他们的斗法。¤You disregarded their threats and continued to hide in the jungle, observing their battles.
你感受到两股不弱的神识波动扫遍四周，所幸你的神识要高于这二人，他们并没有发现你的存在。¤You sense two strong soul sense fluctuations sweeping through the surroundings. Luckily, your own soul sense is higher than these two people, and they haven't noticed your presence.
你感受到两股强大的神识碾过你的识海，一瞬间猛烈的剧痛侵占了你的意识，你眼前一黑，晕了过去。¤You feel two powerful soul senses grinding against your sea of consciousness. In an instant, a fierce pain overwhelms your awareness, and you black out.
我派道诣不在炼丹，{shidi}若有需要，可以自行使用炼丹房。¤My sect's focus is not on alchemy, but if {shidi} needs it, they can use the alchemy room on their own.
随着血煞老怪的倒地，余下的禾山道众登时风流云散，一时间人影躁动，一片混乱。¤As the Blood Demon Old Monster fell to the ground, the remaining members of Mt. Harvest Sect immediately scattered like flowing clouds, causing a stir and chaos among the crowd.
想必禾山道自此便会在宁州除名，也算功德一件。¤I believe that after this, the Mt. Harvest Sect will be expelled from Ningzhou, which can be considered a great merit.
您请稍后，我这就将事宜安排下去。¤Please wait a moment, I will arrange matters shortly.
是来镇守执事堂的长老大人？¤Is it the elder who came to guard the deacon's hall?
看来是我的错觉。¤It seems to be my misconception.
何人？此地是我{SayStcVal=928}的地域，阁下是迷路了？¤Who goes there? This is my territory {SayStcVal=928}. Have you lost your way?
几年间，你谨慎的在此地镇守，神识不断扫过，但并没有什么异常。¤For several years, you have cautiously guarded this place, using your soul sense to continuously scan the area, but there have been no abnormalities.
你屏息凝神，细细查探并没有什么发现。¤You hold your breath and focus your senses, carefully exploring but finding nothing out of the ordinary.
几年间，你谨慎地在此地址值守，不断有门内弟子经过执事堂，在外恭敬作揖后离开。¤Over the years, you have carefully guarded this address, and numerous disciples have passed through the deacon's hall, respectfully bowing before leaving.
此番值守还真是风平浪静。¤This watch is really calm and quiet.
我已完成掌门交代的事宜。¤I have already completed the tasks entrusted to me by the master.
你们{SayStcVal=928}守着这等宝地，我不过是借点东西一用。¤You all are guarding such a precious land, I am just borrowing something to use {SayStcVal=928}.
哼，大胆孽畜。\n¤Hmph, how dare you, wicked beast. 
你谨慎的在此地镇守，神识不断扫过，突然间一股妖气出现似乎在袭击本门弟子。¤You carefully guard this place, constantly scanning with your soul sense. Suddenly, a demonic energy appears as if it's attacking our sect disciples.
哼，看招！！¤Hmph, watch my move!!
你谨慎的在此地镇守，神识不断扫过，似乎有一道隐晦的气息在旁潜伏。¤You carefully guard this place, constantly scanning with your soul sense, as if there is a subtle aura lurking nearby.
鹤真人死后，你的阴阳瞳捕捉到一道奇异的光从他的妖丹出飞。¤After He Zhenren's death, your yin yang pupils capture a strange light flying out of his demon core.
你循着光追了过去，不一会便找到了海底的一处迷阵。¤You followed the light and soon found a maze at the bottom of the sea.
你清晰地感应到天地意志对你力量的排斥，来自天劫的强大地压迫感开始笼罩着你。¤You clearly sense the rejection of the power of heaven and earth's will towards you, and a strong sense of oppression from the heavenly tribulation begins to envelop you.
你回想突破时神魂出窍时感受到的力量，只有那种力量才能与天劫相抗衡...¤When you recall the power you felt when your soul left your body during your breakthrough, only that power can withstand the heavenly tribulation...
这便是天劫的威能么...用寻常的神通法门绝不可能抵挡...这是更高层次，凌驾于这一方天地之上的力量。¤So this is the power of heavenly tribulation...it cannot be resisted with normal divine skills...this is a higher level power that surpasses this realm's heaven and earth.
你屏气凝神，神魂再一次自天灵脱壳而出，融于周身天地之间...¤You hold your breath and focus your senses, and your soul once again breaks free from your sky spirit, merging with the surrounding world...
这东西似乎是上古龙族的布阵之物。¤This thing seems to be a formation set up by the ancient Dragon Clan.
我们问道楼出售的可都是最实用的神通法门，道友看看便知。¤We at Taoist Inquisition Building sell only the most practical divine skills, fellow daoist. Take a look to see for yourself.
道友说笑了，您现在的修为那还需要我给您推荐什么功法。¤Fellow daoist, you jest. With your current cultivation, there is no need for me to recommend any techniques to you.
要说这修仙入门，无非是外练肉身，内练经脉。我看道友如今方才炼气期，正是为炼体和炼气打下基础的好时机。¤To start cultivating immortality, one must focus on refining their physical body and cultivating their meridians internally. I see that fellow daoist has just entered the Qi Refining stage, which is a good opportunity to lay a foundation for body refinement and qi refining.
哈哈哈，道友真是有眼光。¤Hahaha, fellow daoist really has a good eye.
我们问道楼就有两本极好的入门功法，一本唤作《凌云诀》，乃上佳的炼气功法。另一本唤作《玉云功》，用来炼体就再合适不过了。每本只要225灵石，道友可要选上一本？¤At our Taoist inquisition building, we have two excellent introductory techniques. One is called 《Ling Yun Skill》, which is a top-quality Qi refining technique. The other is called 《Jade Cloud Technique》, which is perfect for body refinement. Each one only costs 225 spirit stones. Fellow Daoist, which one would you like to choose?
修真之人岂能把此物看得过重？¤How could a cultivator take this object too seriously?
道友赤子心性，只是对外宣扬的噱头罢了。盈手露的原料也非什么稀罕物，只是云汐城遍地都有的桃李花而已。¤Fellow daoist, the claim of having a pure heart is just a facade. The ingredient for Ying Hand Dew is not a rare material, but simply peach blossom found all over Yun Shi City.
算了，多一事不如少一事。¤Let it go, it's better to have less trouble than more.
“这是......？”¤What is this...?
这两个可不是同一种阵法，你这{xiaozi}修行还不到家啊。¤These are not the same type of array, your {xiaozi} cultivation is not sufficient yet.
如道友所见，敝府凭一技之长扬名云汐。若有阵法方面的需求，大可向我公孙府寻求帮助。¤As fellow daoists can see, the Gongsun house has made a name for itself in Yunxi with our exceptional skills. If there is a need for array formations, do not hesitate to seek assistance from us at Gongsun House.
听了你的回答，公孙季沉默不语，像是在思索着什么。你猜不透他的意图，手指在白玉案上轻轻地摩挲着，一股似曾相识的波动从案上传来。¤After listening to your answer, Gongsun Ji fell silent as if contemplating something. You couldn't guess his intentions, as his fingers lightly rubbed against the white jade table. A familiar wave of emotion emanated from the table.
“之前在听雨阁喝茶时也传来了相同的波动，难道公孙府和听雨阁也有关联？”¤When I was drinking tea at the Rain Pavilion earlier, I felt the same disturbance. Could it be that there is a connection between the Gongsun House and the Rain Pavilion?
阁下说得不无道理，如果有人出灵石向你买一位无辜稚童的命呢？¤Your point is not unreasonable. What if someone offers you spirit stones to buy the life of an innocent child?
你虽疑惑，却还是按着他的指引踏上前往花厅的路。¤Although you were puzzled, you still followed his guidance and set foot on the road to the flower hall.
你察觉到了？¤Did you notice it?
看来道友已经试过其他的路了？公孙府没有什么其他本事，只是擅长自保而已。¤It seems that fellow daoist has already tried other paths? The Gongsun house doesn't have any other abilities aside from being good at self-preservation.
方才拍卖会上我观道友出手阔绰，不知道友对于灵石有何感想？¤Just now at the auction, I saw fellow daoist making generous moves. I don't know fellow daoist's thoughts on spirit stones?
哈哈哈，道友当真有趣。若是你发现这孩童其实怪病缠身命不久矣，死了反而解脱，你又当如何？¤Hahaha, fellow daoist, you truly are amusing. If you were to discover that this child is actually afflicted with a strange illness and that death would be a release for them, what would you do?
同魏无极闲聊间你走到花厅，绚烂的桃花梨花绽满枝梢，公孙季便坐在花下的白玉案边。¤While chatting with Wei Wuji, you walk into the Flower Hall where the branches of peach blossoms and pear blossoms are in full bloom. Gongsun Ji is sitting at the white jade table under the flowers.
哈哈，叫道友莫拍只是因为那坛盈手露并非佳酿，这壶中的才是上品。¤Haha, fellow daoist please don't be offended, I'm only saying that the bottle of ying hand dew is not a good vintage, the one in this pot is the top grade.
{FirstName}{LastName}前来拜会，叨扰了。¤{FirstName}{LastName} has come to pay a visit, apologies for the disturbance.
嗯...这个感觉，和那个地方一样。¤Um... this feeling, it's the same as that place.
无端杀戮确实不妥，只是要看报酬值不值我这样做了。¤Needlessly inflicting violence is indeed inappropriate, but it all depends on whether the reward is worth me doing so.
道友，你我他日再聚。¤Fellow Daoist, let us meet again another day.
不远处就是岔路口，想起小厮的话，你鬼使神差地走向另一条路。腿还没迈进去，一股柔和的力量将你推回原地。¤Not far away is the fork in the road. Remembering the words of the maid servant, you instinctively head towards the other path. Before you can take a step forward, a gentle force pushes you back to where you started.
正是，你一路走来见不到府中其他人怕也是阵法使然。¤Exactly. The reason why you haven't seen anyone else in the mansion on your way here is probably because of some sort of array.
冷酷无情、天理难容、丧尽天良！¤Cruel, unfeeling, incompatible with justice, and completely devoid of conscience!
他又一次递给你一张纸条，并嘱咐你出府后再打开。你二人共饮了一阵，把一坛盈手露喝个精光才惜惜拜别。¤He handed you another piece of paper and instructed you to open it after leaving the manor. The two of you drank together for a while, finishing a whole jar of ying hand dew before reluctantly bidding farewell.
不是说材料珍贵，供应极少......？¤Didn't you say that the materials were precious and the supply was very little...?
道友请坐，想必你有很多疑问吧？¤Fellow daoist, please take a seat. I am sure you have many questions, right?
{FirstName}道友果非池中物，公孙某没看错人。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName} is an exceptional talent, Gongsun didn't misjudge.
公孙季意味深长地笑了笑。¤Gongsun Ji smiled meaningfully.
既然{FirstName}道友没有问题了，接下来便换我问问道友。¤Since fellow daoist {FirstName} has no questions, it's now my turn to ask asking the way.
阵法？¤Array?
犹豫时公孙季已经停下思考笑着望向你，你二人又共饮了一阵，把一坛盈手露喝个精光才惜惜拜别。¤As you hesitated, Gongsun Ji had already stopped thinking and was looking at you with a smile. The two of you drank together for a while and finished the entire jar of Ying Hand Dew before reluctantly parting ways.
难怪刚刚的家丁有恃无恐，这府中原来布满了阵法。¤No wonder the servant earlier was so confident, this residence is actually filled with arrays.
你二人又共饮了一阵，把一坛盈手露喝个精光才惜惜拜别。¤You both drank together again for a while, and finished a jar of ying hand dew before reluctantly saying goodbye.
公孙季但笑不语，只是嘱托你出府后还是少去听雨阁为妙。¤Gongsun Ji smiled but said nothing, only advising you to avoid going to the Rain Pavilion after leaving the mansion.
不知什么原因，公孙府内走动的人极少，要说人丁单薄的话下人也总该有那么几个，可除了门口的小厮外你竟再也没见过其他人。¤For reasons unknown, very few people move about in the Gongsun house. If we speak of a sparse population, there should at least be a few servants, but apart from the maid servant at the entrance, you have never seen anyone else.
太多资源都需要灵石换取，离开灵石实在是仙途坎坷。¤Many resources require spirit stones in exchange, leaving without spirit stones will make the journey to immortality difficult.
碎星岛上的商队偶尔会来到宁州进行交易，我也是跟着他们来这里开开眼界。¤Occasionally, caravans from Shattered Star Island come to Ningzhou to trade. I followed them here to broaden my horizons.
你们四人也将各得到门派赏赐的筑基丹一枚。¤You four will each receive a Foundation Pill reward from the sect.
哈哈哈...慕容师姐谬赞了，我看你们门派的白露师妹也是身手不凡。¤Hahaha...Senior Sister Murong, you flatter me. I also think that your sect's Sister Bai Lu has exceptional skills.
（低声）哼...虚伪的男人，瞧你刚刚那得意的样子。¤(Whispering) Hmph...such a hypocritical man. Look at how proud you were just now.
现在让我来看看你的大道吧！¤Now, let me take a look at your dao!
（尴尬）咳咳咳咳....¤(Embarrassed) Ahem ahem ahem ahem...
诸位道友，本次宗门大比已决出了前四位弟子，他们都是我们两派年轻一辈中的精英，肩负着我们两派的未来。¤Fellow Daoists, the clan competitions have concluded and the top four disciples have been determined. They are all outstanding young talents of our two sects, carrying the future of our clans on their shoulders.
那个...诸位道友，本次宗门大比已决出了前四位弟子，他们都是我们两派年轻一辈中的精英，肩负着我们两派的未来。¤Um... Fellow Daoists, the top four disciples have been decided in the Clan Competition this time. They are all the elites among the young generation of our two clans, carrying the future of our two clans on their shoulders.
好了，接下来你们将进行最后的两轮比试，只有最终夺魁者才能够直接晋升为内门弟子，祝你们好运。¤Alright, next you will have the final two rounds of competition. Only the final winner will be able to directly become an inner disciple. Good luck to you all.
（开心）小{shidi}今天看起来状态不错。¤({shidi}, you look in good spirits today.)
{FirstName}{shidi}，这是我最后一次参加大比的机会了，我不会留手的，¤{FirstName} {shidi}, this is my last chance to participate in the grand competition, I won't hold back,
徐师兄，请！¤Senior Brother Xu, please!
呵呵，萧师弟，贵派可真是人才辈出呢。¤Hehe, Junior Xiao, your sect really has outstanding talents.
请{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}和徐凡师弟上台！¤Please {FirstName}{LastName}{shidi} and Junior Xu Fan come to the stage!
多谢{FirstName}{shidi}上次的点拨，我已明白属于自己的道是什么。¤Thank you {FirstName}{shidi} for your guidance last time. I now understand what my own path is.
前段时间在九嶷山炼魂，有个臭散修仗着自己遁速快，三番五次挑衅于我，每次我都只看到一道金色的遁光，他就从我眼皮子底下给溜了。¤Recently, while I was refining my soul on Jiuyi Mountain, a stinky wandering cultivator repeatedly provoked me, relying on his fast speed. Every time, all I could see was a golden stream of light and he would slip away right under my nose.
这五柳根是三品的珍贵药材，它形似普通的枯树枝，但外壳很硬，难以采集。¤This petrificious root is a precious medicinal material of third grade. It resembles a withered tree branch, but with a hard exterior that makes gathering difficult.
九叶芝？¤Nine forked shroom?
{xiaozi}，你有没有听说过一种名叫“九叶芝”的草药？¤{xiaozi}, have you ever heard of a herb called nine forked shroom?
你最近表现的不错，我暂时也没有什么事情要交给你去办了，回去好好修炼吧。¤Your recent performance has been good, and for the time being, I don't have anything for you to do. Go back and cultivate well.
你得替我想办法去教训一下他，出了我这口恶气！¤You have to find a way to teach him a lesson for me, so I can vent my anger!
不错不错，你这次也算帮了我一个大忙了。说吧，你想要什么赏赐？¤Not bad, not bad. You've helped me out this time. So, tell me, what do you want as a reward?
不应该没有效果啊... ...¤It shouldn't have no effect... 
桀桀桀桀，这沂山双鬼倒是耐得住性子。你这次干得不错，我果然没有看错人。¤Hehehe, these Mt. Yi twin ghosts have quite the patience. You did well this time, I knew I didn't misjudge you.
听说沂山的青面鬼和赤发鬼许久不露面了，桀桀桀桀，你去沂山附近随便收拾他们几个弟子，探探他们的虚实。¤I heard that the green-faced ghost and the red-haired ghost of Mt. Yi haven't shown themselves for a long time. Hehehe, you go near Mt. Yi and take care of a few of their disciples, and see if they're worth their salt.
好，以后传音符联系！¤Okay, we'll keep in touch with sound talismans from now on!
这不会有危险吧？¤Is this not dangerous?
也因为这样，我之前只能用药性相似的“补天芝”来炼制，现在看来还是不成。¤Because of this, I had to previously use Skymend Shroom as a substitute for 补天芝 due to its similar medicinal properties, but it still didn't work.
听说那青面鬼和赤发鬼死在了自家山头，也不知道是哪位大能出的手。¤I heard that the green-faced ghost and the red-haired ghost died on their own mountain, and I don't know who was powerful enough to do it.
嗯，那这500灵石你便收下吧。¤Well, then you can take these 500 spirit stones, he said.
什么感觉？¤What feeling?
那沂山派的赤发鬼和青面鬼夺了本来属于我们禾山道的宝贝，我们自然不会就这么算了。¤The red-haired ghost and green-faced ghost of Mt. Yi Sect stole treasures that originally belonged to our Mt. Harvest Sect. We will not just let it go like this.
桀桀桀桀，没错，我要的就是这个，你这次干的不错。¤Hehehe, that's right, this is what I wanted. You did well this time.
东西呢？你莫不是在拿我寻开心？¤What about the item? Are you trying to make fun of me?
听说这是一件从秘境里带出来的法宝，也不知是多少年前的东西了。那赤发鬼与青面鬼逃回去后就一直躲在{color=#d0380a}沂山{/color}不出来，好像就是在闭关研究那件法宝。¤I have heard that this is an artifact brought out of a secret realm, and who knows how many years ago it was. After the red-haired ghost and the green-faced ghost fled back, they have been hiding in Mt. Yi, seeming to be cultivating and studying that artifact.
这件事也算得上极其危险，不过你要是能帮我办成，我一定少不了你的好处。¤This matter can also be considered extremely dangerous, but if you can help me accomplish it, I will definitely owe you a favor.
怎么样...有什么感觉么？¤How about it... any feelings?
事情办得怎么样了？{w}{w=0.5}¤How did things turn out? {w}{w=0.5}
那我便赐你三颗洗髓丹，助你精进修为。¤Then I will grant you three minor qi pills to aid in your cultivation.
嗯...真香！¤Mmm... smells delicious!
不该你知道的东西少打听。¤You shouldn't ask about things you shouldn't know.
什么浑身舒畅，这丹药哪有你说的那么神奇？再说了，我又没中毒，吃这解毒的药丸能有啥效果。¤What body comfort? This pill isn't as magical as you say it is. Besides, I'm not poisoned, so what effect would detoxing pills like these have?
上次炼的清蕴丹也不知道成色怎么样，桀桀桀桀，正好你来帮我试服一颗，看看效果。¤I don't know how good the last batch of panacea pills I made was. Hehehe, it just so happens that you can help me test one and see the results.
这锁魂幡与我们禾山道的功法相辅相成，威力无穷，你若能好好利用，与人战斗时一定大有益处。¤This soul locking streamer complements our technique in Mt. Harvest Sect. Its power is boundless, and if you can use it well, it will surely be beneficial in combat with others.
不过，如今宁州只有在方壶山和连石山一带，才能找到这味药材了，但这两片区域被竹山宗与金虹剑派所掌管着，普通人是不让进山采集的。¤However, nowadays medicinal materials like this can only be found in the area surrounding Fang Hu Mountain and Liangshi Mountain in Ningzhou. But these two areas are under the control of Bamboo Mountain Sect and Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, and ordinary people are not allowed to gather them.
此灵芝青盖长茎，有九片叶子，所以叫做九叶芝。它和我之前让你找的五柳根一样，都是三品的草药，非常稀有。¤This Lingzhi mushroom has a long stem with a green cap and nine forked shrooms, hence its name nine forked shroom. It is a third-grade herb just like the petrificious root I asked you to find earlier. Both are very rare herbs.
桀桀桀桀，放心吧，这清蕴丹是解毒灵丹，就算吃了没效果，也毒不死你。¤Hehehe, don't worry, this panacea pill is a detoxing elixir. Even if it doesn't work, it won't poison you.
事情办得怎么样了？¤How's the situation going?
就是...你有没有觉得自己浑身舒畅，灵力充沛？¤Have you ever felt completely refreshed and full of spiritual energy throughout your body?
嗝~¤Hiccup~
你从麻老九手中接过一粒丹药，小心翼翼的放入口中，然后仰头吞了下去。¤You took a pill from Old Ma's hand, carefully placed it in your mouth, and then swallowed it while tilting your head back.
不过这味草药虽然稀有，却恰好也出产于在禾山一带，所以花一点时间，应该就能找到。¤However, this herb, although rare, happens to be produced in the Mt. Harvest area, so it should only take a little time to find.
听说这两人逃回去后就一直躲在{color=#d0380a}沂山{/color}不出来，好像在闭关研究那件法宝。¤I heard that after these two people escaped, they have been hiding in Mt. Yi and cultivating, seemingly researching an artifact.
麻老九突然深深地看了你一眼。¤Old Ma suddenly gave you a deep look.
此事与你说说倒也无妨，想必你之前也已经听说过一些了。¤It's okay to tell you about this, and I'm sure you've heard some of it before.
这...这果真是九叶芝，哈哈哈哈。¤This...this is truly the Nine Forked Shroom, hahaha.
麻老九深深地看了你一眼。¤Old Ma gave you a deep look.
明白了，交给我吧。¤I understand, leave it to me.
你从麻老九手中接过一粒丹药，直接丢进嘴里，吧唧吧唧地嚼了起来，一股浓烈的药香味在你嘴中弥漫。¤You took a pill from Old Ma's hand and tossed it straight into your mouth, chomping on it with a smacking sound. A strong medicinal aroma filled your mouth.
我这几天正好在研究一个老丹方，现在就缺了一味叫做五柳根的草药，你去帮我采一株来。¤These past few days, I've been researching an old recipe. I'm currently missing an herb called petrificious root. Could you help me by gathering a plant of it?
桀桀桀桀，区区一个散修也敢惹我们禾山道的人，这就是下场。¤Hehehe, a mere mundane cultivator dares to provoke the people of Mt. Harvest Sect? This is the consequence.
一股强劲的灵力袭来，将栖云长老击退。¤A strong spiritual force surged forward, pushing Elder Qiyun back.
林沐心转过头朝你做了个鬼脸，挥了下手示意你跟上去。¤Lin Muxin turned her head and made a funny face at you, waving her hand to signal for you to follow.
冲虚长老面色铁青，但见此情此景也只能讪讪一笑，向丹阳子作揖后便灰头土脸地离开了。¤Elder Chongxu's face turned ashen at the scene, but all he could do was force a smile and bow to Yang Danzi before leaving with a gloomy expression.
心儿，长老会内部还要处理些事情，你先带这位小友回房休息吧。¤Little Xin, there are still some matters that need to be handled within the Elder Council. You should take this young friend back to the room for some rest first.
方才还不可一世的栖云长老此刻已噤若寒蝉，想来这位突然出手的神秘人便是当代林家家主丹阳子了。¤Just a moment ago, the arrogant Qiyun elder now remained silent like a cicada in winter. It is likely that this mysterious person who suddenly made a move is the current Lin family patriarch, Yang Pill.
{vpunch=10,0.5}家...家主！！！¤Clan...Clan Leader!!!
丹阳子又扭头看向了你和林沐心的方向。¤Dan Yangzi then turned his head in the direction of you and Lin Muxin.
若不是通羽知会于我，我倒不知道你还有这么大的胆子，看来我当真太纵容你了！¤If it weren't for Tongyu letting me know, I wouldn't have known that you had such great audacity. It seems that I really indulged you too much!
冲虚长老，今日我们林家还有家事要处理，不便接客，回到星宫还请代我向各位长老问好。¤Senior Chong Xu, today our Lin Family has family matters to attend to and cannot entertain guests. Please convey my greetings to the other elders when you return to Star Palace.
这位小友倒是不简单，如此年纪就能抵挡住栖云的攻势。¤This young friend is quite impressive, able to withstand Qiyun's attacks at such a young age.
对小辈出手，像什么话！¤What kind of talk is it to target the younger generation?
找死！！！¤Looking for death!!!
哼~土鸡瓦狗...¤Hmph~worthless trash...
古籍《本草纲目》或有记载，待我查看一下。¤There may be records in the ancient book 'Compendium of Materia Medica'. Let me take a look.
老板，你可听说过与火铜伴生的草药？¤Boss, have you heard of the herbs that grow alongside fire copper?
五百年前？！¤Five hundred years ago?!
{shidi}缘何大惊小怪，难道你寻这草药有要事？¤{shidi}, why are you so easily frightened? Do you have important business in searching for these herbs?
师兄，你可听说过与火铜伴生的草药？¤Senior brother, have you heard of herbs that grow in tandem with fire copper?
偶然听说而已，师兄莫放心上。¤I just heard about it by chance. Don't worry about it, senior brother.
有是有，名唤{color=#d0380a}宁州香薷{/color}，因极其{color=#d0380a}畏寒{/color}，故生于火铜四周。但这种植物在五百年前就已经灭绝了。¤There is one, named {color=#d0380a}Ningzhou Xiangru{/color}, which grew around the area of Fire Copper due to its extreme fear of the cold. However, this plant went extinct five hundred years ago.
唉，好不容易探得音讯，却又不是什么好消息。暂且先去武陵城将此事告知李相书吧......¤Ah, finally got some news but it's not good. Let's go to Wuling City and inform Li Xiangshu about this first...
偶然听说而已，老板莫放心上。¤Just heard it by chance, boss, don't worry about it.
{gongzi}缘何大惊小怪，难道你寻这草药有要事？可惜宁州香薷已经灭绝，小店有心无力......¤{Gongzi}, why are you making such a fuss? Are you searching for herbs for a crucial matter? Unfortunately, the Ningzhou fragrant mint has already become extinct. My shop is willing but unable to help...
师姐，你可听说过与火铜伴生的草药？¤Senior sister, have you heard of herbs that grow together with fire copper?
偶然听说而已，师姐莫放心上。¤I just happened to hear about it, senior sister, don't worry about it.
此任务暂未开放¤This quest is not yet available.
前辈，请问来我离火门何事？¤Senior, may I ask what business brings you to our Fire Gate Sect?
炎萧道友可在门内？玄道宗说他最近去过天魔眼核心区，我需要找他了解一番天魔眼内的情况。¤Is fellow daoist Yan Xiao in the sect? The Xuan Dao Sect said he recently went to the Heavenly Devil's Eye Core area and I need to find him to learn about the situation inside the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
说完，这位离火门修士便是往宗门内快步离去。¤After speaking, this Fire Gate Sect cultivator quickly left towards his clan.
前辈如若不急可在离火门等炎萧{$YXChenHao}归来，若是事情重要也可以前往此片海域寻他。但此行凶险，还请前辈准备充分再自行前往。¤If senior is not in a rush, they can wait for Yan Xiao {$YXChenHao} to return to the Fire Gate Sect. If the matter is urgent, they can also search for him in this sea area. However, this journey is dangerous, so please be fully prepared before embarking on it.
若是不出意外，炎萧{$YXChenHao}应当会在此片海域的东南角。¤If there are no surprises, Yan Xiao {$YXChenHao} ought to be in the southeast corner of this sea area.
十分抱歉，炎萧{$YXChenHao}目前不在宗门内，听门中长老说他从天魔眼归来后便是往无尽之海去了，目的地应该是雷鸣海域。¤I'm very sorry, but Yan Xiao {$YXChenHao} is currently not in the clan. According to the elder at the gate, he left for the Thunder Sea in the Endless Sea after returning from the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
前辈如若不急可在离火门等炎萧{$YXChenHao}归来，若是事情重要也可以前往此片海域寻他。¤Senior, if you are not in a hurry, you can wait for Yan Xiao {$YXChenHao} to return to the Fire Gate Sect. If it's urgent, you can also come to this sea area to find him.
此事不能耽搁，我还是去海上寻他吧。¤This matter cannot be delayed, I should go and search for him on the sea.
不出盏茶功夫，之前离去的离火门修士便已是归来。¤Within the time it takes to brew a cup of tea, the cultivators of the Fire Gate Sect who had left previously had already returned.
请前辈稍等，待我询问门内长老一番。¤Please wait a moment, let me inquire with the elder inside the gate.
有。¤There is.
遥望仙途伊始，你终于回想起自己的本心。好在现在回头还来得及，于是你拜别宁王，重新踏上属于自己的修真之路。¤As you look towards the beginning of your journey towards immortality, you finally remember your true intentions. Luckily, you still have time to turn back, so you bid farewell to the Ning King and set foot once again on your own path to cultivate.
我刚刚已经在你体内埋下了一道剑气，如果遇到危险，你便以真气催动剑气，我感应到就前去救你。¤I have just implanted a sword qi in your body. In case of danger, use your true qi to activate the sword qi, and I will sense it and come to your rescue.
美姬在怀，美酒傍身，你大半辈子都在闭关苦修，从未享受过如此人间极乐，真想就这么一直放纵下去...¤With a beauty in his arms and fine wine by his side, he had spent most of his life in seclusion, cultivating without ever experiencing such earthly pleasures. He couldn't help but indulge in this moment and wished it could go on forever...
送走这位不速之客后，你一想到接下来的麻烦便无心赴约，索性便打道回府了...¤After seeing off this unwelcome guest, you couldn't bring yourself to keep the appointment, so you went back home, not caring about the troubles ahead...
他掐指施了个法诀拍进你胸口，然后将一张卷轴递给你。¤He pinched his finger to cast a spell and slapped it into your chest, then handed you a scroll.
这天你与美妾相约黄昏后，取了好酒正欲前往后院时，突然被一柄长剑截住去路。¤On this day, you made an appointment with a beautiful woman to meet after dusk, and took some good wine and intended to head to the backyard when suddenly you were stopped by a long sword.
你漫步来到酒宴之外，想起上次享乐时的美妙滋味，再回想自己过往闭关苦修的情景，又有些犹豫起来...{w}{w=0.5}¤You step outside of the banquet hall, thinking back to the wonderful taste of indulgence from last time. When you recall the scenes of your past cultivation, you hesitate once again...{w}{w=0.5}
这...这是那日我在宴会上见过的美妾！？¤This... this is the beautiful woman I saw at the banquet that day!?
画像上这个人你可认识？¤Do you recognize this person in the picture?
（不错，不错...能自己及时醒悟，反倒是一件好事）¤(Not bad, not bad... being able to wake up in time by oneself is actually a good thing.)
替我办事或者现在就死。¤Do something for me or die now.
你在宴会之上一直享乐至深夜，这才醉醺醺地返回自己的住所。¤You indulged in the banquet until late at night and returned to your residence in a drunken stupor.
不错，以你的身份，想在这王府内监视此人并不是什么难事。¤Not bad. With your identity, monitoring this person within the palace should not be difficult.
......道友真会说笑，既然允诺了报酬，在下倒是愿意听听，你到底想我监视何人。¤Fellow Daoist, you truly know how to joke. Since you promised compensation, I am willing to listen. Who exactly do you want me to monitor?
宁王府内，夜夜笙歌，食美酒取之不尽，银钱宝物用之不竭，宁王的美妾更是各个貌若天仙。¤Inside Ning King's Manor, there are nightly celebrations with endless supplies of delicious wine and treasure that never seem to run out. The Ning King's beauties are stunning and comparable to heavenly fairies.
不知道友深夜来访有何贵干？¤I don't know why my daoist fellow came to visit me on such a late night.
轻举妄动小心你项上人头不保。¤Be careful not to lose your head with any reckless action.
想到这里，你哈哈一笑，踱步走进酒宴。¤Thinking of this, you smiled and strolled into the banquet.
你在宴会之上左拥右抱，花天酒地，过得好不惬意。一直享乐至深夜，这才醉醺醺地返回自己的住所。¤You were surrounded by admirers at the banquet, reveling in the pleasures of the night. You indulged yourself until the wee hours of the morning before returning drunkenly to your own abode.
今日寻你是为了让你替我监视一个人。事情办成后法器、功法和丹药任你挑选，其它的事情你无需知晓。¤Today, I have come to ask you to spy on someone for me. Once the task is completed, you can choose any magic tool, technique and pill as you wish. You don't need to know anything else.
今朝有酒今朝醉，放着如此人间极乐不去享受，这才是一种罪过。¤Today we have wine, let's get drunk today. It is a sin not to enjoy the earthly paradise.
你这几日在宁王府内左拥右抱，花天酒地，过得好不惬意。¤These few days, you have been living a leisurely life in the Ning King's Manor, surrounded by your entourage and indulging in earthly delights.
敢问道友，我还有其他选择吗？¤May I ask my fellow daoist, do I have any other options?
求道之路遍地诱惑，漫漫修真途中，真能坚守道心一往直前的修士又有几何？难道余生真要交代此地，与长生失之交臂？¤On the path of seeking the Dao, temptations are everywhere. How many cultivators can truly uphold their Dao heart and advance steadfastly on the long journey of cultivation? Must we truly leave this world with regret, unable to attain eternal life?
不错，恰好是{$linghe}枚灵核，道友请。¤Not bad, it happens to be {$linghe} spiritual cores. Fellow daoist, please take them.
道友此番在灵脉内共采集了{$linghe}个月，按规矩，道友需要向我们缴纳{$linghe}枚灵核，或是{$lingshi}灵石。¤Fellow daoist, you have been gathering in the spiritual vein for {$linghe} months. According to the rules, you are required to submit {$linghe} spiritual nuclei, or {$lingshi} spirit stones.
不错，恰好是{$lingshi}灵石，道友请。¤Not bad, it happens to be {$lingshi} spirit stones, fellow daoist please.
切不可轻视天魔眼中的魔物，我当年在试炼时也险些送了性命。¤Do not underestimate the spirit beasts in the Heavenly Devil's Eye. I nearly lost my life while undergoing trials in the past.
我派虽是剑派，但也有诸多金属性功法传承。¤Although our sect is a sword sect, we also have many techniques that involve metal attributes.
那两位修士本就胜在人数，有了你的加入，黑心老人很快便制服了对手。¤The two cultivators were already winning in terms of numbers, and with your help, old man Darkheart quickly subdued the opponent.
言罢，黑心老人祭出一颗通体鲜红的珠子，缓缓将灵力送入其内。随着灵力的灌溉，那颗珠子红光大盛，几乎是一瞬间便将你们击败的修士笼罩在内。¤After speaking, the old man darkheart summoned a bright red bead and slowly infused it with spiritual energy. As the spiritual energy poured in, the bead's light grew stronger until it enveloped the cultivators who had just defeated you almost instantaneously.
本座思来想去，以你目前的修为，还是我参悟的《忘忧诀》对你帮助最大。¤After much contemplation, I have concluded that with your current level of cultivation, my comprehension of the 《Forgetfulness Skill》 will be of the utmost help to you.
殷红的血液从他们的皮肤渗出，汇成汩汩涓流被嗜血珠吞噬，几声惨叫过后，那两位古神教修士便化作两具干尸扑倒在地。¤Crimson blood oozed from their skin, streaming together to be devoured by the Bloodthirsty Pearls. After a few miserable screams, the two ancient god sect cultivators turned into two corpses and fell to the ground.
本座于这宁州古迹中还有要事未解决，便先行离去了。¤I still have unfinished business at the ancient ruins of Ning Province, so I'll leave first.
这次能够解决他们，还是多亏了你的帮助。¤This time we were able to solve it, thanks to your help.
叫你们打主意到我的嗜血珠身上，现在就告诉你们什么叫自讨苦吃！¤You suggested using my Bloodthirsty Bead, now I'm telling you it's self-inflicted misery!
此功法乃是机缘巧合之下所得的残本，突破元婴后，我费尽心血将其补齐。若此功法修炼有成，便可在交战时沟通天地灵气，令你实力大增。¤This technique was obtained by chance as a partial manuscript. After breaking through to the nascent soul, I spent a great deal of effort completing it. If cultivated successfully, it can allow you to communicate with the spiritual energy of heaven and earth during battle, greatly increasing your strength.
环视一周，场上的宁州化神们正尽力拖住血剑宫和天魔道的化神强者。与血河战斗时翻涌的气血尚未平复，但此时此刻，你又怎能坐视不理。¤Looking around, the transformation deities of Ningzhou were doing their best to hold back the powerful transformation deities of Blood Sword Palace and Heavenly Demon Cult disciple. The lifeforce that had been raging during the battle with Blood River had yet to calm down, but at this moment, how could you just sit by and do nothing?
你刚要松一口气，却看见一名拄着权杖的神秘老者不知何时出现在了白帝的身后，此人神识修为深不可测，再加上众人都被玄骨吸引了注意力，竟无一人发现了他。¤Just as you were about to relax, you suddenly noticed a mysterious old man leaning on a cane appear behind the White Emperor. His soul sense cultivation was unfathomable. In addition, everyone's attention was drawn to the Xuan Bone, and no one noticed him.
与此同时，那老者将手中的权杖凭空一柱，一道恐怖的能量波向着已经没有任何防护的白帝背后袭去。¤At the same time, the old man waved his staff in the air, and a terrifying wave of energy struck the unprotected back of the White Emperor.
老者用沙哑而诡异的声音喃喃自语着，却并没有急着继续出手的意思。¤The old man murmured with a hoarse and eerie voice, but he didn't mean to rush to take action.
据我所知，星宫主与那白帝素无交情。你当真要为了他与我古神教为敌？¤From what I know, the Star Palace Lord has no connection with the White Emperor. Are you really going to become enemies with my Ancient God Sect for his sake?
还未等众人反应过来，那老人一个踏步就出现在白帝身侧，伸手便要夺那诛仙剑。¤Before the crowd could react, the old man stepped forward and appeared beside the White Emperor, reaching out to grab the Immortal Sword.
当年古神教蛊惑我派长老，还害死鸾儿，你当本宫忘了不成？¤Back then, the ancient god sect manipulated our elder and even caused the death of Luanner. Do you think this palace has forgotten?
古神教功法虽说也修神识，但在星宫法术面前却全无半点优势，被全力出手的星凝打得节节败退。¤Although the techniques of the Ancient God Sect also cultivate the soul sense, they have no advantage in front of the Star Palace spells and were easily beaten back by Xing Ning's full strength attacks.
你猛的看向白帝，只发现一个老人正拄着拐踏空而来，悄无声息的从背后接近了白帝。此人神识修为深不可测，再加上众人都被玄骨吸引了注意力，竟无一人发现了他。¤You suddenly looked towards the White Emperor and only saw an old man walking towards him with a cane, silently approaching from behind. This person's soul sense cultivation is unfathomable, and combined with everyone being focused on the mysterious bone, no one noticed him.
白帝手中凭空凝聚出一柄灵气巨剑，就要向那老者砍去。谁知诛仙剑却先动了，一道虚影从剑中飞出，驱使着飞剑刺向那人。¤The White Emperor conjured a giant spiritual sword out of thin air, ready to strike the old man. But unexpectedly, the Immortal Sword moved first. A phantom soared out from the sword, driving the flying sword towards the man.
去。¤Go.
环视一周，场上的宁州化神们正尽力拖住血剑宫和天魔道的化神强者。虽没有拦住他的信心，但此时此刻，你又怎能坐视不理。¤Looking around, the Ningzhou deities were doing their best to hold back the deities from Blood Sword Palace and the Heavenly Demon Cult. Although you didn't have the confidence to stop him, how could you sit by and do nothing at this moment?
诛仙剑的攻击显然大大出乎老者的预料，但白帝的攻击接踵而至，来不及细想，他只能闪身向后避开。¤The attack of the Immortal Sword was clearly far beyond the old man's expectations, but the White Emperor's strike followed closely behind. Without time to think, he could only quickly dodge backwards.
老人并没有理会你，而是看向正魔两道化神交战之处，似乎在确认什么。¤The old man ignored you and instead looked towards the battlefield where the two sides of the righteous and demonic were undergoing a deity transformation, as if confirming something.
轩儿，你专心应对最后两道天劫，不必管我。¤Xuan'er, concentrate on dealing with the last two heavenly tribulations, don't worry about me.
你什么时候发现我的？¤When did you discover me?
可是...¤But...
这些年来的旧账，今日本宫就好好与你算算！¤In recent years, I will settle the old accounts with you today!
你就是当年失踪的御剑门掌门吧？竟然用自己的魂魄封印了诛仙剑，倒是把我也骗过了。¤Are you the missing master of the Imperial Sword Sect from back then? You actually sealed the Immortal Sword with your own soul, you even managed to deceive me.
{vpunch=10,0.5}“轰”¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Boom
你玩的这些小把戏，可骗不了本宫。¤The little tricks you're playing won't fool me, the palace.
不对...古神教布局多年，怎会只有玄骨一人来冒险夺剑？¤This is not right...the Ancient God Sect has been planning for years, how could they only send Xuan Bone to take the risk of seizing the sword?
只见那老者将手中的权杖凭空一柱，一道恐怖的能量波向着已经没有任何防护的白帝背后袭去。¤I saw the old man raise his staff and a terrifying energy wave surged towards the unprotected back of the White Emperor.
这诛仙剑好像也发生了一些变化，有意思...莫非是吞噬了什么了不得的东西？¤The Immortal Sword seems to have undergone some changes, interesting... Could it be that it has devoured something extraordinary?
怎么？你也配教本宫做事？¤What? Do you think you're qualified to teach this palace how to do things?
你见星凝已经压制住了玄骨，刚松一口气，突然却有一种莫名的危机感涌上心头。¤You saw Xing Ning had already suppressed the Xuan Bone, just as you breathed a sigh of relief, suddenly you felt an inexplicable sense of crisis.
残余的能量波结结实实的撞在白帝的身上，震得他整个人向后一飘，嘴角也沁出了血丝。还未等众人反应过来，那老人一个踏步就出现在白帝身侧，伸手便要夺那诛仙剑。¤The residual energy wave hit the White Emperor squarely, causing his entire body to drift backwards and blood to seep from the corners of his mouth. Before anyone could react, the old man took a step forward and appeared beside the White Emperor, reaching out to snatch the Immortal Sword from his grasp.
难怪你在那种情况下也可以脱离魔神蛊的控制，能耐真是不小。¤No wonder you were able to break free from the control of the devil god gu even in that situation. Your abilities are truly impressive.
古神教的蛆虫，终于忍不住要动手了？¤The worms of the Ancient God Sect couldn't resist anymore and finally decided to take action?
你到底是谁？¤Who are you in the end?
当年古神教蛊惑我派长老，令星宫名誉扫地，你当本宫忘了不成？¤Back then, the ancient god sect manipulated our elder and caused the Star Palace to lose its reputation. Do you think I have forgotten about it?
老人扬了扬眉，似乎有些惊讶，却并未理会你，而后看向正魔两道化神交战之处，似乎在确认什么。¤The old man raised his eyebrows, seeming somewhat surprised, but ignored you and looked towards the battle between the righteous and demonic deity transformations, seemingly confirming something.
你虽然不知道老人在想什么，但眼下最关键的是保护白帝渡劫，因此你只是小心戒备，拖延时间。¤Although you don't know what the old man is thinking, the most crucial thing now is to protect the White Emperor from his tribulation. Therefore, you are being cautious and delaying time.
师父，你？¤Master, what's wrong with you?
太晚了，老者的攻击紧追着刚刚落下的雷劫便应声而至。来不及闪避了，那道能量波结结实实的撞在白帝的身上，将他震飞出去，口中也吐出一口鲜血。¤It was too late. The attack from the old man closely followed the strikes of the Thunder Kalpa, which had just fallen. There was no time to dodge, and the solid energy wave hit the White Emperor, sending him flying and spewing blood from his mouth.
住手！¤Stop!
你正看着星凝的战况，上方第七道雷劫却应声落下，砸在白帝的灵气护罩上。灵气护罩又一次烟消云散，但白帝却毫发无伤。¤You were watching Xing Ning's battle, but the seventh Thunder Kalpa from above suddenly struck the Shield of White Emperor's spiritual energy. The Shield of White Emperor once again shattered, but White Emperor himself was unscathed.
虽然已经有人注意到了这里发生的情况，但化神强者交手又岂能说停就停。四溢碰撞的灵气若是强行收回，只会击伤自己。¤Although some have already noticed the situation occurring here, the battle between the deity transformation experts cannot simply cease on command. If the overflowing collision of spiritual energy is forcibly retracted, it will only harm oneself.
秘术已经被中断了...看来是天意如此吧。¤The secret arts have been interrupted... It seems to be the will of heaven.
哼~¤Hmph~
星凝的声音突然从身后传来，而被她拦住的人，正是在宁州古迹中夺走戮仙剑的玄骨老祖，此刻正面色铁青的看着星凝。¤The voice of Xing Ning suddenly came from behind, and the person she stopped was Patriarch Dark Bones, who had taken the Immortal Executing Sword from the ancient ruins of Ning Province. He now looked at Xing Ning with a grim expression.
你一张手，将诛仙剑收回手中，只身拦在老者与白帝之间。¤You put out your hand and retrieved the Immortal Sword, standing alone between the old man and the White Emperor.
白帝勉强提起一口气来，凝聚出一柄灵气巨剑，就要向那老者砍去。谁知诛仙剑却先动了，一道虚影从剑中飞出，驱使着飞剑刺向那人。¤White Emperor barely managed to gather his breath and conjured a massive sword of spiritual energy. He was about to strike the old man but was surprised when Immortal Sword moved first. A phantom shot out of the sword and guided it towards the man.
第七道雷劫应声落下，砸在白帝的灵气护罩上。一声巨大的“轰隆”声后，灵气护罩再一次烟消云散。¤The seventh thunder kalpa descended with a loud crash, striking against the protective shield of White Emperor's spiritual energy. With a thunderous boom, the spiritual shield once again dissipated into nothingness.
来不及完全闪避了，白帝一边向后方飞退，一边驱使剩余的护体剑气向那道能量波飞去。它们虽然无法完全挡住这道攻势，但也削弱了它不少的威能。¤Unable to completely dodge in time, the White Emperor flew backwards while urging the remaining protective sword qi towards the energy wave. Although they couldn't completely block the attack, they were able to weaken its power to a certain extent.
过了一会儿，他似乎发现了什么，脸上突然露出一抹诡谲的笑容。而后只是轻轻扫了你一眼，你便感到一股巨大的威压向你笼罩而来...¤After a while, he seemed to have discovered something, and a creepy smile suddenly appeared on his face. Then he just glanced at you lightly, and you felt a huge might suppression coming towards you...
放心吧师兄，接下来就交给我了。¤Don't worry senior brother, leave it to me from here on out.
嗯？剑中之灵...¤Hmm? Spirit in the Sword…
想从我手上抢剑？我倒要看看你有几分本事。¤Want to snatch the sword from my hand? Let me see if you have the skills.
你是{FirstName}{LastName}道友？¤Are you fellow daoist {FirstName}{LastName}?
哈哈，我前些时日突破金丹，正打算去无尽之海上历练一番。听父亲说海上龙族凶猛，要我多加小心。日后{xiongdi}若是出海也得谨慎些！¤Haha, I recently made a breakthrough to golden core and I plan to go on a journey to the endless sea. My father warned me about the fierce dragon clan in the sea and advised me to be careful. If my brothers also venture out to the sea in the future, they should also be cautious!
诸位道友，本次宗门大比已决出了前四位弟子，他们都是我派年轻一辈中的精英，肩负着我派的未来。¤Dear fellow daoists, the clan competitions have concluded and the top four disciples have been decided. They are all outstanding talents among our younger generation, carrying the future of our clan.
很好，这是任务奖励，辛苦你了。我还有宗门事务在身，恕不远送。¤Great, here's your quest reward. Thank you for your hard work. I still have clan affairs to attend to, so I won't see you off.
没想到这家伙还有两下子...算了，我还是下次再来吧。¤I didn't expect this guy to have some skills... well, I'll come back next time.
搞定，回去交差！¤Get it done, go back and report!
没想到，长老作为炼丹长老在阵法上的造诣也是了得，晚辈佩服。¤I didn't expect that the elder's proficiency in arrays as an alchemy elder is also remarkable. I admire it.
你开始检查各个草药的生长情况，并通过自己草药理解对药材的生长环境做出调整。¤You begin to inspect the growth status of various herbs, and make adjustments to the growing environment of medicinal materials based on your understanding of herbs.
只见他催动手中的信物，眼前笼罩着药田的光幕撤去。一阵草木灵气迸发而出，不过当他们触及药园边缘时，又被聚拢回来并没有散溢出去。¤I see him activating the token in his hand, and the light screen covering the herbs field in front of him disappears. A burst of spiritual energy from the plants and trees rushes out, but when they reach the edge of the field, they are drawn back in and don't overflow out.
呼~我门还是先办正事吧。¤Sigh~ We should probably take care of important matters first.
长老，您还有别的吩咐么？¤Elder, do you have any other orders?
不好...¤Not good...
好了，这药园应该没有什么隐患了。¤Okay, there should be no hidden danger in this medicinal garden now.
不过，远处一道遁光赶来，来者更换了阵基，灵气外溢也就止住了。¤However, a fleeing ray of light came from afar, and the approacher changed the array, causing the overflowing spiritual energy to stop.
你手掐法诀隔空就修复了那块阵基上的灵纹，同时草木灵气也停止了泄露。¤Using your hands to form a seal, you repaired the spiritual lines on that formation base from a distance, and at the same time, the leakage of the spiritual energy of the plants and trees also stopped.
别慌。¤Don't panic.
您就是来维护宗门药田的{FirstName}长老吧。您是要现在开始么？¤Are you the Elder {FirstName} who came to maintain the clan's herbs field? Are you starting now?
药园的草木灵气开始缓缓外泄。¤The spiritual energy of the plants in the medicinal garden began to slowly leak out.
我这就打开禁制。¤I'll open the prohibition now.
以你的阵道造诣很难分辨出这是什么阵法，更别提如何修复。¤With your proficiency in the array dao, it's hard to distinguish what kind of array formation this is, let alone how to repair it.
有劳长老了。¤Thank you, elder.
此时药园边的一块阵基，其上铭刻的灵纹在一阵闪烁之后消失了，药园的聚灵阵似乎出现了一个缺口。¤At this moment, the spirit array engraved on a formation base by the medicine garden vanished after a flicker. It seemed like there was a gap in the condensing spirit array of the medicine garden.
你不过扫视一眼，你分辨出这阵法不过是一改良的巨型聚灵阵罢了。¤You just glanced at it, and you could tell that this array was nothing more than a modified giant gathering spirit array.
哈哈哈，举手之劳何足挂齿我门还是先办正事吧。¤Hahaha, it's just a small favor. Let's focus on the matter at hand first.
你们几个，跟我去验货，剩下的人赶紧清理现场，千万不要留下活口！¤You few, come with me to inspect the goods. The rest of you quickly clean up the scene, don't leave anyone alive!
老大，都搞定了！¤Boss, it's all taken care of!
哈哈哈哈，这么轻松就得手了，这在广陵城赫赫有名的百里家也不过如此。¤Hahaha, it was so easy to succeed. This is just how it is in the famous Baili family of Guangling City.
（这赤炎灵阵果然厉害，要是没有这阵法的辅助，那些百里家的护卫也不好对付。）¤(This red hot spirit array is truly powerful. Without the assistance of this array formation, it would be difficult to defeat the guards of the Baili family.)
对方进洞府没多久，就反身一道遁光直奔古月寨方向。¤Not long after entering the cave, the person turned around and swiftly flew towards the direction of Gu Yue Village using a spell.
一路潜行，你跟着她来到巫山脚下。¤As you sneak along, you follow her to the foot of Mt. Wu.
你将冰心石收入储物袋，随后破水而出。因你取走了其中的一部分，那令人不适的吸力减轻了不少，三眼灵猴已到潭边静静地等候着。¤You put the Ice Heart Stone into the storage pouch and then burst forth from the water. Because you took a portion of it, the uncomfortable suction weakened quite a bit. The Three-eyed Spirit Monkey was already waiting quietly by the pond.
应该是冰心石...连我的魂魄都有所波动，年份大约有万年以上了。¤It should be ice heart stone... even my soul is somewhat moved by it, and it's probably over ten thousand years old.
随着你的靠近，那股吸力愈来愈强。而那只三眼灵猴早在五尺外停下脚步，不安分地抓耳挠腮，看起来十分不适。¤As you approach, the suction grows stronger. The three-eyed spirit monkey stopped in its tracks five feet away and fidgeted uneasily, scratching its ear and cheek, looking very uncomfortable.
它急切地拉扯着你的衣服，同时用前肢比划着一个方向，似乎是在催促你过去。¤It eagerly tugs at your clothes while gesturing in a certain direction with its forelimbs, as if urging you to go over.
你敏锐地察觉到魏无极的身形在靠近这些石头时，也会轻微地变形。¤You keenly perceive that Wei Wuji's figure will also slightly change when he approaches these stones.
看样子它想带你来的地方就是这里了，不知这里有什么奇妙之处，连你这等修为都无法维持神识的稳定。¤It seems like this is where it wants to bring you. I wonder what wonders this place holds that even your cultivation cannot maintain the stability of your soul sense.
你用灵气照亮漆黑的潭底，一片幽幽的荧光与你的灵气交相呼应。¤You use spiritual energy to illuminate the dark bottom of the pool, and a faint fluorescence responds to your spiritual energy.
扭曲的辉光让你看不清这些石头原本的模样，只得求助于魏无极。¤The twisted radiance makes it difficult to discern the original appearance of these stones, requiring assistance from Wei Wuji.
冰心石...？¤Ice heart stone...?
三眼灵猴时不时停下手舞足蹈地示意你转向，一人一猴在山中摸索了不少时间，最终来到一片寒潭前。¤The three-eyed spirit monkey occasionally stopped and gestured for you to turn as you and the monkey wandered through the mountains for some time. Eventually, you arrived at a frigid pond.
让我看看...¤Let me see...
呼，也算是帮杜老二报了一箭之仇…¤Sigh, I guess this counts as helping old Du get revenge for once...
你摆了摆手，三眼灵猴领会了你的意思，转身消失在了山林间。¤You waved your hand and the Three-eyed Spirit Monkey understood your meaning, turning and disappearing into the mountains.
你心领神会，朝着三眼灵猴指出的方向御剑而起。那灵猴跟在你的剑下，竟丝毫不逊遁术之速。¤You understand intuitively and follow the direction that the three-eyed spirit monkey is pointing as you wield your sword. The monkey keeps pace with your sword, displaying a mobility that rivals even the most skilled practitioners of escape techniques.
随着下潜深度的提升，你感到神识被拉扯的感觉愈发强烈，到达潭底后，吸力的加强才堪堪停止。¤As the diving depth increased, you feel the pull on your soul sense becoming stronger and stronger. It was only upon reaching the bottom of the pool that the suction's strengthening finally came to a stop.
你纵身跃入水中，潭中的水并无任何特别之处，看来这股吸力的源头并非潭水本身。¤You leaped into the water and found that the pond itself was not particularly remarkable. It seems that the source of this suction is not from the water itself.
你没切几块便感到疲累如斯，脑内传来剧烈的刺痛，只得就此作罢。¤You didn't cut a few pieces and felt so tired, with severe stabbing pain in your brain, you had to stop here.
你抵抗着这股神秘的力量，决定去潭中一窥端倪。¤You resist this mysterious force and decide to take a peek into the pool.
不错，此物用于炼器可增强使用者的神识，其中百年冰心石功效最弱，其次是千年冰心石，这万年冰心石可谓极其罕见。¤Not bad, this object can enhance the user's soul sense when used for refining. The hundred-year ice heart stone has the weakest effect, followed by the thousand-year ice heart stone. The ten thousand-year ice heart stone can be considered extremely rare.
见你平安上岸，三眼灵猴友好地朝你挥了挥手，转身消失在山林间。¤As you safely reached the shore, the three-eyed spirit monkey waved friendly at you before disappearing into the woods.
“这灵猴这副模样...也不知这水潭是好是坏......”¤This spiritual monkey's appearance... I don't know if this water pool is good or bad...
以神识采撷的天材地宝你还是第一次见，你小心地以神识聚成的利刃去切割岩壁上的冰心石。¤You are seeing rare celestial treasures collected with the use of soul sense for the first time. You carefully use the blade formed by your soul sense to cut through the ice heart stones embedded in the wall.
你感到有什么正轻轻地扯着你的衣角，回头一看正和那只三眼灵猴对上视线。¤You feel something gently tugging at your clothes, and when you turn around you meet the gaze of the three-eyed spirit monkey.
本着生生不息之道，你利落地收集了一半的冰心石。¤Following the path of eternal restlessness, you efficiently collected half of the ice heart stones.
你嗖嗖嗖地切下几块，感到头脑有些发晕时便停下了动作。¤You quickly cut a few pieces and stopped when you felt a little dizzy in the head.
那寒潭仿佛有什么吸力一样，不断地想要将你的神识扯离你的身体。¤That frigid abyss seems to have some kind of suction, constantly attempting to pull your soul sense away from your body.
还未接近寒潭，你便察觉到其中蕴含着巨大的能量，甚至连你的神识都受到了影响。¤Before even approaching the cold pond, you can sense the immense energy contained within. Even your soul sense is affected by it.
你可以神识凝刃，将此物从岩壁上割下，此举也能凝练你的神识。¤You can use your soul sense to condense a blade and cut this object from the rock wall. This action can also refine your soul sense.
吱吱！¤Squeak!
吱吱！吱吱吱吱！¤Squeak! Squeak squeak squeak!
你顺着这股阴冷的气息一路追踪过去，很快便来到一处隐蔽的洞府外...¤You followed this cold breath and quickly arrived at a concealed cave...
只见一条巨蟒向你咬了过来。¤You see a giant python biting towards you.
只见一头岩鳄向你咬了过来。¤I saw a rock crocodile biting towards you.
桀桀桀，又有新鲜的魂魄送上门来了。¤Kekeke, there are fresh souls delivered right to our doorsteps again.
你猜测这些失踪的凡人应该是被沂山派的修士拦路截杀，目的是夺取他们的商品与钱财。但你在此处兜兜转转找了几天，也没有找到那名“沂山派的修士”，只能就此作罢。¤You speculate that these missing mortals were likely intercepted and killed by cultivators from mt. yi sect, with the intention of seizing their goods and money. However, you have been wandering around here for a few days and have not been able to find the cultivators from mt. yi sect, so you can only give up for now.
现场的打斗痕迹看起来不像修真者所留下的，倒更像凡人之间的打斗。¤The traces of the fighting on site did not seem to be left by cultivators, but more like a fight between mortals.
你猜测这些失踪的凡人应该是被附近的妖兽所害，但你在此处兜兜转转找了几天，也没有发现那只“妖兽”，只能就此作罢。¤You speculate that these missing mortals were likely killed by nearby spirit beasts, but after searching around here for several days, you didn't find that spirit beast anywhere, so you have to give up on it.
那些传闻中的失踪案件大多都发生在这儿附近，要先从何处开始调查呢？¤Where should we start investigating the missing cases that are often rumored to happen around here?
你猜测这些失踪的凡人应该是被附近的山贼强盗，目的是夺取他们的商品与钱财。但你在此处兜兜转转找了几天，也没有找到那群“山贼”，只能就此作罢。¤You speculate that these missing mortals were probably taken by nearby bandits with the aim of robbing them of their goods and money. But after wandering around here for a few days, you haven't found those bandits and can only give up for now.
你施展神识在附近探查，很快便找到一处隐藏于山林之中的强盗窝点。那些普通凡人哪里是你的对手，三下五除二便被你打得四散逃跑，想来是不敢再回此地作恶了。¤You use your soul sense to investigate the nearby area and quickly find a bandit hideout hidden in the mountains and forests. The mortals there are no match for you and are quickly scattered and run away. They probably won't dare to come back and cause trouble again.
你顺着这些痕迹一路追踪过去，很快便来到一处隐蔽的洞穴处...¤You followed these traces all the way forward, and soon arrived at a hidden cave...
从现场的痕迹判断，这些失踪的凡人应该是被什么妖兽给杀害了。¤Based on the evidence at the scene, it appears that these missing mortals were likely killed by some sort of spirit beast.
距离此处不远就是几座凡人村落，而这里原本是他们前往大城市的必经之路，如今却人烟稀少。¤Not far from here are several mortal villages, and this was originally the must-pass route for them to go to the big city, but now it is sparsely populated.
你猜测这些失踪的凡人应该是被禾山道的邪修，施展炼魂的邪术所伤。但你在此处兜兜转转找了几天，也没有找到那名“邪修”，只能就此作罢。¤You speculate that these missing mortals were likely injured by the sinister spells of the demonic cultivators of Mt. Harvest Sect. However, after wandering around here for a few days, you were unable to find the demonic cultivator and had to give up.
看来导致附近凡人失踪的原因应该是...？¤It seems that the reason for the disappearance of nearby mortals should be...?
道友来找我何事？¤Fellow daoist, what brings you here to see me?
此事紧急道友还是快快行动。¤This matter is urgent, fellow daoist, please take action quickly.
长老，之前托你办得事情完成的怎么样了？¤Elder, how did the task I entrusted to you before turn out?
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为外务长老怕是不能服众。¤With your reputation within the clan, if you were to become an exterior elder, it's possible that others would not accept it.
在结婴的过程中，一旦意志受损过于严重，心魔对你的影响也会变得更大。¤During the process of nascent, if the damage to the will is too severe, the influence of the demon heart on you will also become greater.
此次古迹内发生之事我已知晓，当年遗失的四柄魔剑，如今魔门已得其三，唯有诛仙剑仍下落不明。¤I am aware of what has happened within this ancient relic. The four demon swords that were lost in the past have now been obtained by the Demon Sect, with the exception of the Immortal Sword which is still missing.
算算时间，距离下一次古迹出世也已经只有{$wubai}年了。到时候，宗门内一些修为高深的长老也会参与其中。¤Calculating the time, there is only {$wubai} years left until the next appearance of the ancient ruins. At that time, some of the elder members of the clan with advanced cultivation will also participate.
说来，我派传承万年，其实有不少的功法与神通都在这漫漫年月中失传了。¤As it happens, my sect's heritage has been passed down for thousands of years, but many of our techniques and divine skills have been lost over this long period of time.
唔...你对于炼丹一道的造诣恐怕还无法胜任我派炼丹长老的职责。¤Hmm... Your proficiency in alchemy might not be sufficient to take on the responsibility of being an alchemy elder in our sect.
以后就有劳了。¤From now on, I'll rely on you.
只是上一次古迹出世之时，那位携带仙剑的长老命陨其中，这仙剑也就此下落不明。¤Only, during the last emergence of the ancient ruins, the elder carrying the immortal sword perished in it, and since then the whereabouts of the immortal sword has remained unknown.
千年前那一次古迹出世，我派损伤惨重。当年的大长老衍复真人被卷入乱流之中，未能脱身，至今还被困在那片空间之中。¤During the emergence of the ancient ruins a thousand years ago, our sect suffered heavy losses. The grand elder at that time, the paragon overflowing action, was swept away by the turbulence and has since been trapped in that space.
{FirstName}长老此番若是也想前往古迹，或许可以帮宗门多多留意一番。若有幸能找回宗门传承，那也算是宗门之幸了。¤Elder {FirstName}, if you are considering visiting the ancient ruins, perhaps you could help keep an eye out for the clan. If we are fortunate enough to recover the clan's inheritance, it would be a great fortune for our clan.
{FirstName}长老此番若是也想前往古迹，还请务必帮宗门多多留意一下这柄仙剑的下落。若能寻得此剑，那也算是宗门之幸了。¤Elder {FirstName}, if you plan to visit the ancient ruins, please pay attention to the whereabouts of this immortal sword on behalf of the clan. If you can find this sword, it would be considered a great fortune for the clan.
{FirstName}长老，你上次任职至今还未满50年，你还是{$TempValue}年之后再过来吧。¤Elder {FirstName}, you have not yet completed 50 years in your previous position. Please come back in {$TempValue} years.
呃.....{FirstName}长老，你还是先把手头的任务处理好再来找我吧。¤Hmm... Elder {FirstName}, why don't you handle your current quests first and then come find me?
经脉的强度和你对炼体与炼气之道的感悟息息相关，对这两条大道的感悟越深，经脉的强度就越高，这对于是否能够成功突破异常的重要。¤The strength of the meridians is closely related to your enlightenment of the paths of body refinement and qi refining. The deeper your enlightenment of these two paths, the stronger your meridians will be. This is crucial for successfully achieving a breakthrough. The dao of these paths is essential.
实际上，我派曾经倾全派资源炼制过一套剑阵，共由五柄纯阳法宝级别的仙剑组成，威能不俗。¤In fact, our sect had once dedicated all our resources to refine a set of sword array. It consisted of five pure yang magic weapons of treasure level, possessing considerable power.
不知师侄之前可否了解过，结婴其实是一个破而后立的过程，需要经过{color=#d0380a}碎丹{/color}与{color=#d0380a}化婴{/color}这两个步骤。¤Uncle, have you heard of the nascent transformation process before? It involves two steps, the first being the formation of nascent essence and the second being the nascent transformation. It is a process of breaking and then establishing oneself.
宗门暂时没有什么需要长老你处理的要事。¤The clan currently has no pressing matters for you, an elder, to handle.
很好，此事就拜托你了，还请长老务必抓紧时间。¤Very well, I entrust this matter to you. Please make sure to prioritize it, Elder.
掌门此番闭死关已有数百年之久，也不知能否在古迹出世前出关。若是无法突破瓶颈，恐怕只能道尽于此。¤Master has been in seclusion for several hundred years, and it's uncertain whether they will be able to leave before the ancient ruins appear. If they cannot make a breakthrough in their bottleneck, they may be doomed to stay here.
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为炼丹长老怕是不能服众。¤With your reputation among the clan, it's feared that becoming an alchemy elder wouldn't be widely accepted.
{FirstName}长老此番若是也想前往古迹，还请务必帮宗门多多留意一下火属性的矿石类材料。特别是像赤火元铜精这样的六品天才地宝，在宁州已是极难寻得，希望此次能在古迹中找到一些。¤Elder {FirstName}, if you plan to explore the ancient ruins, please keep a close eye on any fire attribute materials that could benefit the clan. Especially red fire copper, a sixth-grade precious material that is extremely difficult to obtain in Ningzhou. We hope that you can find some during your expedition.
既然长老琐事缠身，就先暂居挂名长老吧。¤Since the elder is busy with trivial matters, let's first reside as an honorary elder.
上古时期，宁州古迹所在之地也算是一座较为繁荣的城池。后因成为正魔大战的主战场而衰败，整片空间也由于巨大的灵力引起位面塌陷，被卷入了时空乱流中。¤During ancient times, the land where Ningzhou ancient ruins are located was considered a relatively prosperous city. However, it declined due to becoming the main battleground of the war between the righteous and demonic forces. The entire space collapsed due to the immense spirit power, and was swept into the chaos of time and space.
此番事了，长老你可以获得{$jiangli}。¤This matter is settled, elder, you can gain {$jiangli}.
若是还能找到其他能够在结婴时保护经脉与意志的丹药，自然也是多多益善。¤If one can find other nascent alchemical pills that can protect the meridians and willpower during the process of 结婴, it would be even better.
要想在古迹内寻得机缘，最直接的方式便是前往当年古战场的核心区域，也就是{color=#d0380a}古原城{/color}。万年前因那场大战而遗失的功法传承，和通天法宝都有可能在那里寻得。¤If you want to seek opportunities in the ancient ruins, the most direct way is to go to the core area of the ancient battlefield, which is known as {color=#d0380a}Gu Yuan City{/color}. The inheritance of martial arts lost 10,000 years ago due to that great war, as well as the artifact that can control the skies, may both be found there.
在结婴的过程中，一旦经脉受损过于严重，还会直接影响吸收与运转灵气的速度。¤During the process of nascent formation, if the meridian damage is too severe, it will directly impact the speed of absorption and circulation of spiritual energy.
{FirstName}长老此番若是也想前往古迹，还请务必帮宗门多多留意一下当年失踪长老的下落。尽管希望渺茫，但以真人元婴巅峰的修为，如果能够成功突破，未必没有幸存的可能性。¤Elder {FirstName}, if you plan to venture into the ancient ruins, please keep an eye out for any leads on the whereabouts of our missing elders from years past. Though it may seem unlikely, with your cultivation at the peak of Nascent Soul realm, a breakthrough could potentially lead to their survival. As a member of the clan, it is crucial to investigate all possibilities.
如若此时失败，轻则修为大退，重则全身经脉寸断，一身修为毁于一旦。¤If one fails at this moment, the cultivation will decrease significantly at best, and at worst, all the meridians in the body will be shattered, and all cultivation will be destroyed in an instant.
{FirstName}长老想知道些什么？¤Elder {FirstName}, what do you want to know?
不过时间有限，若是{FirstName}长老不能在一年之内离开，到时候空间裂隙消失，只怕会被永远困在里面。¤However, time is limited. If Elder {FirstName} cannot leave within a year, when the space rift disappears, they may be permanently trapped inside.
看来{FirstName}长老已经从别处得知了宁州古迹的消息。¤It seems that Elder {FirstName} has already heard the news about the Ning Province Ancient Ruin from elsewhere.
{$TmpTalkString}，何事？¤{$TmpTalkString}, what is the matter?
{FirstName}长老还想知道些什么？¤Elder {FirstName}, what else do you want to know?
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为炼器长老怕是不能服众。¤With your reputation within the clan, it may not be enough for you to become a Forging Elder and gain the trust of all.
所以这结婴之关键，便在于突破者经脉与意志的强度。而除此以外，尽量多的收集结婴用的丹药与秘术也非常关键。¤So the key to achieving nascent breakthrough lies in the strength of the breakthrough cultivator's meridians and willpower. Apart from this, it is also crucial to collect as many pills for the array and secret arts used for nascent breakthrough as possible.
宁州古迹如今已经陷入时空乱流之中，要想进入那片空间，唯有趁千年一次空间壁障薄弱时强行闯入。¤The ancient ruins of Ning Province are now trapped in a chaotic time-space vortex. If one wishes to enter that space, they can only forcefully break through during the once-every-thousand-years weakening of the spatial barrier.
{FirstName}长老，宗门若有是什么事宜我会第一时间传音给你的。¤Elder {FirstName}, if there are any important matters concerning the clan, I will inform you as soon as possible.
所谓碎丹，是当体内灵气饱和后，继续吸纳灵气，直到金丹碎裂的过程。在这个阶段中需经历全身经脉大损之痛苦，需一鼓作气，方可最大限度减少对{color=#d0380a}经脉{/color}的损伤。¤The so-called fragmented core is the process of absorbing spiritual energy until the golden core shatters after saturation. During this stage, the body will suffer from severe damage to the meridians. One must take a deep breath and minimize the damage to the meridians.
按往年的记录，这薄弱之处往往会出现在岫络谷的附近，到时仅需靠金丹期修为便可打开通道，进入宁州古迹所在的那片空间。¤Based on previous records, the weakness is often found near Cui Luo Valley. At that time, one only needs to rely on their cultivation at the Golden Core stage to open the passage and enter the space where the Ning Province Ancient Ruin is located.
唔...你对于炼器一道的造诣恐怕还无法胜任我派炼器长老的职责。¤Hmm...I'm afraid your knowledge of refining is not sufficient for you to take on the role of our sect's forging elder.
自然是这样。只是一旦进入空间乱流后，便只能勉强控制自身方向，至于最后到底会被带向何处就无人可知了。¤Nature is like that. However, once you enter the chaotic space currents, you can only barely control your own direction. As for where you will ultimately be taken, no one knows.
若是重新让魔门找回全部得四柄魔剑，组成通天剑阵，恐对宁州各派不利啊。¤If the demonic sect retrieves all four demon swords and forms the Heavenly Sword Array, it may be disadvantageous for all factions in Ningzhou.
因此，一旦进入古迹，最终还是得仰仗自身的实力，同门之间能否相遇尚且未知，恐怕难以指望。¤Therefore, once entering an ancient tomb, ultimately one must rely on their own strength. It is still unknown whether fellow disciples will meet each other, and it is difficult to rely on this.
{FirstName}长老此番若是也想前往古迹，还请务必帮宗门多多留意一些有生息药性的高阶草药。特别是像炼心芝这样的五品仙草，在宁州已是极难寻得，希望此次能在古迹中找到一些。¤Elder {FirstName}, if you're planning on going to the ancient ruins, please do keep an eye out for some advanced herbs with birthing properties that can aid our clan. Especially heartrend shrooms, which are of five-star quality and very difficult to find in Ningzhou. I hope you can discover some during your journey.
一旦碎丹成功，开始化婴后，一边需要继续凝聚灵气，另一边还要经受心魔对{color=#d0380a}意志{/color}的考验。¤Once the condensing of spiritual energy succeeds and nascent transformation begins, cultivators need to continue condensing spiritual energy while also enduring the test of demon heart on their willpower. {color=#d0380a}Color=#d0380a{/color}
除此以外，很多已经在宁州几乎灭绝的珍贵草药和材料，也有可能在那片位面仍然存在，但想要找到这些东西，可就得看个人机缘了。¤In addition, many valuable herbs and materials that are almost extinct in Ningzhou may still exist in that dimension, but finding these things depends on personal chance.
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为授业长老怕是不能服众。¤With your reputation within the clan, becoming an instructor elder may not be able to gain everyone's acceptance.
意志的强度主要由你的心境所决定，但除此以外，在神魂之道上的感悟也会对此有所帮助。¤The strength of one's willpower is mainly determined by their mental state, but in addition to this, enlightenment in the realm of soul cultivation can also be helpful.
结婴的秘术极为稀有，我派有一独门秘术唤作{$mishu}。但除此以外，你还应当尽量尝试收集其他的秘术。¤The secret arts of nascent cultivation are extremely rare. Our sect possesses a unique secret art called {$mishu}. However, besides this, you should still try to collect as many other secret arts as possible.
{$TmpTalkString}，有何吩咐？¤{$TmpTalkString}, what are your orders?
结婴时，大活络丹与大醒神丹必不可少，这两种丹药可以帮你保护经脉，守灵台清明。它们的丹方在我派藏经阁秘阁内亦有记录。¤During the Nascent stage, the Great Revitalising Pill and the Great Awakening Pill are essential. These two types of pills can help protect your meridians and keep your Spiritual Platform clear. Their recipes are also recorded in the Secret Pavilion and the Hidden Manual Pavilion of our sect.
果然厉害，我不是你的对手。¤Really powerful, I am no match for you.
师弟，这是你的酬劳收好！！¤Junior, this is your payment, take it!
哈哈哈，到手了。¤Hahaha, got it.
谢师兄。¤Thank you, senior brother.
师...{shixiong}，你怎么来了！¤Senior {shixiong}, why have you come!
(~o~)哎...好困...¤(~o~) Sigh... So sleepy...
看守药田的马师兄似乎睡着了...¤Senior brother Ma, who is in charge of guarding the herbs field, seems to have dozed off...
我说的没错吧，是不是很奇怪？¤What I said is correct, right? It's strange, isn't it?
五行剑诀可真是太帅了！{xiongdi}你什么时候背着我偷偷研究的！也太不够意思了吧！¤The 5 elements sword art is really cool! {xiongdi} when did you secretly study it behind my back! That's not very nice!
这功法真是奇怪，快去石台那边读一读吧！一定不会让你失望的！¤This technique is truly strange. Quickly go and read it on the stone platform. It's sure to not disappoint you!
没错，确实奇怪得很...看来是需要一段时间领悟一下。¤Yes, it is indeed very strange... It seems that it will take some time for enlightenment.
再往{color=#d0380a}西边{/color}走就是{color=#d0380a}枯木林{/color}了，你可千万别去那边。¤If you continue walking {color=#d0380a}westward{/color}, you will reach the {color=#d0380a}deadwood forest{/color}. Don't ever go there.
不远处传来了一声喝止，你下意识收敛气息躲在了一旁。¤A voice of warning came from not far away, and you instinctively restrained your breath and hid to one side.
算了...你也别多想，这种事情不是你我能弄明白的，总之离远点就对了。¤Never mind...Don't think too much about it. This is not something you and I can understand. Just stay away from it.
嘶……¤Sigh...
只怕？¤Afraid?
西边的小树林？倒是有些印象...莫非那里出了什么情况？¤The small forest to the west? I do have some impression... could it be that something happened there?
哈哈哈哈，瞧把你吓的。¤Hahaha, look how scared you are.
那筑基修士刻意将声音放低，像是要说什么见不得人的东西似的。但以你的神识，听到这些也不成问题。¤The cultivator intentionally lowered his voice as if he was about to say something that shouldn't be heard. However, with your soul sense, hearing these things shouldn't be a problem.
放心吧，化神可不会跟我们一样小家子气，不会计较这些的。¤Don't worry, the deity transformation is not like us petty humans. It won't care about these things.
听起来的确蹊跷...总之先去西边调查一下吧。¤It does sound suspicious... Anyway, let's go investigate to the west first.
要知道，方壶山灵脉可是远近闻名的灵气充沛之地，各种千年灵药都能在此地生长，何况一片树林。只怕...¤You should know that Fang Hu Mountain is a land known far and wide for its Qi enrichment. All sorts of millennium spiritual herbs can grow here, let alone a forest. I'm afraid...
只见那炼气修士倒吸一口凉气，惊出了一身冷汗。¤I saw the cultivator of qi refining inhale a breath of cold air, shocked to the point of breaking out in a cold sweat.
只不过？¤Just?
能活一千多年，倘若没有服用些延年益寿的丹药，只怕已经达到化神境界了。¤Being able to live for over a thousand years, if one hasn't taken some elixirs that can promote longevity, they might have already reached the realm of deity transformation.
你若想多活些时日，还是离他们远一点为好，不然一不小心触怒了他们…懂吗？¤If you want to live a little longer, it's better to stay away from them. Otherwise, if you accidentally offend them...do you understand?
是，晚辈明白。¤Yes, junior understands.
难说…寻常修士即便到了元婴境界，也就只有一千寿元。¤It's hard to say... Even if an ordinary cultivator reaches the Nascent Soul stage, they only have a lifespan of one thousand years.
这是为何？难不成那边有什么危险吗？¤What's the reason for this? Is there some sort of danger over there?
别走那边！¤Don't go over there!
我听前辈说，那片树林百年前还是青翠如常，如今却枯萎成这副模样…¤I heard from my senior that the forest was still verdant a hundred years ago, but now it has withered into this appearance...
听着，这方壶山住了两位活了上千年的长老，一位是{color=#d0380a}东边{/color}洞府中的明山散人，另一位便是这枯木林中的枯木老祖。¤Listen, in Fang Hu Mountain there are two elders who have lived for over a thousand years. One is the Ming Mountain Scatterer from the cave in the {color=#d0380a}east{/color}, and the other is the Patriarch Deadwood of the Deadwood Forest.
只不过…¤Just...
最近几年，我看这枯木林愈发阴森了。¤In recent years, I have noticed that this deadwood forest has become increasingly gloomy.
原来如此…他们活了这么久，至少也得有元婴修为吧？¤So that's how it is... They have been alive for so long, they must have at least reached the Nascent Soul stage in their cultivation, right?
化神大能手眼通天，我们这小声议论，说不定正被他们看着呢。¤The deity transformation technique is incredibly powerful and allows one to see and hear everything. We should be careful with what we say, as they may be watching us right now.
展开神识探查而去，原来是两名巡山的弟子——一名是筑基境界，而另一名只有炼气修为。¤Expanding his soul sense, he went to explore and found two disciples patrolling the mountain one was in the foundation building realm while the other had only reached the qi refining stage.
呼~~可算甩掉了。¤Hoo~~Finally shook it off.
呼~~不愧是天机阁，在外面跑腿的都是金丹高手。¤Phew~~ It's no wonder Heaven's Secrets Pavilion employs only Golden Core experts for errands outside.
这些赃物自然是不能在宁州出手，不过我们在中州，渝州，幽州都有自己出货的渠道，所以不必担心。¤These stolen goods can't be sold in Ningzhou, but we have our own channels to sell in Zhongzhou, Yuzhou, and Youzhou, so don't worry.
我准备把门内的大阵重新启用起来，布此阵需要消耗大量的火铜精作为材料，我已经让其他弟兄去收集了，你也帮忙去收集一些吧，越多越好。¤I am planning to reactivate the large array inside the gate. Setting up this array requires a lot of fire copper essence as materials. I have already asked other brothers to collect them, and I need you to help collect some as well. The more, the better.
好，那我们出发。¤Okay, then let's set off.
你也知道，那颜老怪虽然有金丹修为，但大哥二哥联起手来想要逃命也是不成问题。那颜老怪气急败坏，便让他们禾山道的人来我们这里闹事。¤You should know that even though Geezer Yan has a Golden Core cultivation, it's still not a problem for Big Brother and Second Brother to escape from him. Angry and desperate, he sent people from Mt. Harvest Sect to cause trouble for us here.
你也不算外人，此事说来给你听倒也无妨，只是你切记不可到处宣扬。¤You are not an outsider either. It's fine to tell you about this matter, but just remember not to spread it around.
噢？你居然找到了这么多火铜精！这下大阵需要的材料应该够用了。¤Oh? You actually found so much fire copper essence! Now we should have enough materials for the major formation.
嗯...这数量虽然不多，但也聊胜于无了。¤Well...though the quantity is not much, it's still better than having nothing.
我收到下面弟兄们的消息，在九嶷山一带发现了百里家商队的踪迹，我准备带兄弟们，干他娘的一票大的。¤I have received news from my brothers below that the tracks of the Baili family's caravan have been found in the Jiuyi mountains. I am ready to take my brothers and hit them hard.
虽然有点风险，但百里家的商队运的可都是价值不菲的宝贝。这次我们提前进山，以阵法设伏。你马上去准备准备，我们这次一起出发。¤Although there is a bit of risk, the goods transported by the Baili family's convoy are all valuable treasures. This time we will enter the mountains in advance and lay an array to set an ambush. Get ready quickly, we will set off together this time.
我只晓得这是件品质极高的法宝，光用神识探查就能感受到它的不凡。自从得了这件宝贝，大哥与二哥便{color=#d0380a}进山{/color}闭关研究去了，你若最近进山，也切记不要打扰到他们。¤I only know that this is an extremely high quality artifact, and I can feel its extraordinary power just by sensing it with my soul. Since obtaining this treasure, my eldest and second brothers have gone into seclusion to cultivate in the mountains {color=#d0380a}enter the mountains{/color}. If you happen to enter the mountains recently, please be sure not to disturb them.
前段时日，大哥二哥与那禾山道的颜老怪一起去探了一处秘境。那颜老怪本来想利用我们帮他取宝，没想到反而被二哥给摆了一道，不仅没得到宝贝，还差点送了性命。¤Some time ago, Big Brother and Second Brother went to explore a secret realm with the geezer yan from Mt. Harvest Sect. Geezer yan wanted to use us to help him obtain treasures, but he ended up being tricked by Second Brother and not only did not get any treasure, but almost lost his life.
好说好说，今后传音符联系。¤Sure, sure, we will stay in touch with the sound talisman from now on.
小{xiongdi}，你这次表现的也不错，这些灵石是给你的奖励。¤Little {xiongdi}, you've done well this time. These spirit stones are your reward.
你来的晚，也难怪你不知道。他就是青面鬼，也就是我们沂山派的二当家。¤You're late, so it's no wonder you don't know. He's the green-faced ghost, also known as the second-in-command of our Mt. Yi Sect.
明白了，我这就去准备。¤I understand, I'll prepare right away.
这火铜精的数量是越多越好啊，{xiongdi}你还是再去找找吧。¤The more fire copper essence, the better. {xiongdi}, why don't you go look for more?
百里...家？¤百里...家？ Baili...family?
哈哈哈哈，好好好，我果然没有看错你。¤Hahaha, good good good, I knew I didn't misjudge you.
上次禾山道来捣乱，我们损失不小，很多弟兄如今都在养伤，丹药也已经不太够用了。¤Last time the Mt. Harvest Sect came to cause trouble, we suffered some losses. Many of our fellow brothers are still recovering and we're almost running out of medicine.
哎，这几颗可不够用啊。¤Ah, these few are definitely not enough to use.
之前太让{xiongdi}你费心了，我这里暂时也没什么别的事了。¤Before, I've made you work too hard, my brothers. For now, I don't have anything else to do here.
{xiaozi}，今天来有什么事？¤{xiaozi}, what brings you here today?
明白，这事儿就交给我了¤Understood, I'll take care of this.
百里家的这支商队运送的都是一些海妖兽的妖丹，虽然品质不算很高，但这种东西在内陆一直都非常稀有，我们这次算是收获颇丰了。¤The Baili family's caravan is transporting some demon cores of sea spirit beasts. Although the quality is not great, this kind of thing has always been very rare in the inland. We have had quite a harvest this time.
哼，等大哥二哥弄清楚这宝贝的法门，到时候我们也就不用再怕这群禾山道的人了。¤Hmph, once Big Brother and Second Brother figure out the secrets of this treasure, we won't have to fear those people from the Mt. Harvest Sect anymore.
杜老二戒备地看了你一眼¤Du Lao Er looked at you warily.
多谢{xiongdi}你跑这一趟了，这些灵石你收着。¤Thank you {xiongdi} for coming all this way, please take these spirit stones.
沃焦山有整个宁州最大的火铜矿脉，但那里属于离火门的管辖范围。好在火铜精也不算太珍贵的材料，你去广陵城的{color=red}百宝行{/color}应该就可以买到。¤In Inferno Mountain lies the biggest fire copper vein of all of Ningzhou, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Fire Gate Sect. Luckily, fire copper essence isn't a particularly rare material, so you should be able to purchase it at the Hundred Treasure House in Guangling City.
准备的怎么样了？¤How are the preparations going?
禾山道又派人来我们沂山附近作乱，伤了我们好几个弟兄，你得想办法教训一下他们，叫他们知道沂山派可不是这么好惹的。¤The He Shan Sect has sent people to cause trouble near our Mt. Yi, and they have injured several of our brothers. You need to find a way to teach them a lesson and let them know that the Mt. Yi Sect is not to be trifled with.
自从得了这件宝贝，大哥与二哥便{color=#d0380a}进山{/color}闭关研究了，你若最近进山，也切记不要打扰到他们。¤Ever since they obtained this treasure, Big Brother and Second Brother have been cultivating in seclusion {color=#d0380a}in the mountains{/color}. If you happen to enter the mountains recently, be sure not to disturb them.
好了，如今二当家回来了，你这段时间为门派做出了不少贡献，这些我都会如实向二当家禀告的，你就先回去休息吧。¤Alright, now that the second-in-command has returned, you have made significant contributions to the sect during this time. I will report these faithfully to the second-in-command. You can go back and rest for now.
{xiaozi}，这可是两位老大的私事，你还是不要乱打听了。¤{xiaozi}, this is a private matter between our two leaders. It's best if you don't pry.
噢？你这找到的数量倒是不少，辛苦你跑这一趟了。¤Oh? You've found quite a few, it seems. Thank you for making the trip.
麻烦{xiongdi}你跑一趟，帮我收集{color=red}3颗化瘀丹{/color}来，给其它弟兄们服用。¤Brother, can you do me a favor and collect 3 novice healing pills? Please give them to the other brothers to use.
不错的灵力，这霜熊绝非普通的筑基期妖兽实力，小心应对。¤Good spiritual power, this frost bear is not an ordinary foundation establishment spirit beast, be careful in dealing with it.
道友，这补灵丹乃是家师所炼制。¤Fellow daoist, this qi caller pill was refined by my master.
只可惜，你也是个跑腿的。¤Unfortunately, you're just a errand runner too.
此事便交给我吧。¤Let me handle this.
{FirstName}道友可是从星宫听说的？¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, did you hear about it from Star Palace?
哈哈哈。¤Hahaha.
{FirstName}{$NickName}再次造访公孙府，可是有带来什么好消息？¤{FirstName}{$NickName} visits the Gongsun House once again, but did they bring any good news?
你和公孙季寒暄一会后，便是告辞离去。¤After exchanging pleasantries with Gongsun Ji, you take your leave.
你从储物袋中取出此前所得战利品，随手丢给公孙季。¤You take out the loot you previously obtained from the storage pouch and casually toss it to Gongsun Ji.
不知公孙府所遇何事？¤I don't know what has happened to the Gongsun house.
以{FirstName}{$NickName}与在下的关系，交换就不必了。请稍坐片刻，在下这就去命人取酒来。¤With the relationship between {FirstName}{$NickName} and I, there's no need for exchanging. Please wait a moment, I will go and command someone to fetch the wine.
{FirstName}{$NickName}若是想要极品盈手露倒也不难，府内酒窖刚好还有几坛，只是公孙府遇到些棘手的事，现下...¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, if you want some high-quality Ying Hand Dew, it's not too difficult to find. There are a few barrels in the cellar of Gongsun House. However, Gongsun House is facing some tricky problems at the moment...
公孙府正好遇到棘手之事，若是{FirstName}道友能为在下解决，自当将盈手露双手奉上。¤Gongsun House is currently caught up in a tricky situation. If Fellow Daoist {FirstName} could resolve it for me, I will offer up both hands of Ying Hand Dew as a token of gratitude.
那在下便在府中等候{FirstName}道友的好消息。¤I have been waiting for good news from fellow daoist {FirstName} in the mansion.
来人，去取两坛极品盈手露。¤Someone, go fetch two jars of the finest Ying Hand Dew.
贵干不敢当，只是听说云汐城仙酿乃是宁州一绝，其中极品盈手露更是堪比仙酿。所以想上门讨要一坛，品品其中滋味。¤I am honored, but I cannot accept such a valuable gift. I have only heard that the Yun Shi City brews are a rarity in Ningzhou, and that the exquisite Ying Hand Dew is as exceptional as a heavenly brew. I would be grateful for the opportunity to visit and taste the flavors for myself.
我想要两坛公孙府所酿极品盈手露，不知以何物交换才愿割爱？¤I would like to exchange for two jars of the finest Ying Hand Dew brewed by the Gongsun House. What would you be willing to trade for it?
说来难以启齿，但既是{FirstName}{$NickName}相问，在下也就不藏着掖着了。¤Difficult to speak of, but since {FirstName}{$NickName} has asked, I won't hide it anymore.
{FirstName}道友久等了。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, you have waited for a long time.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，请问来公孙府贵干？¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, may I ask why you have come to Gongsun House?
公孙季听闻“极品”两字后神情一滞，随即面露难色，但终究还是将之埋入心里，转而以微笑面向你。¤Upon hearing the words top quality, Gongsun Ji's expression faltered for a moment before a troubled look appeared on their face. However, they ultimately buried the feeling within and turned towards you with a smile.
{FirstName}{$NickName}说笑了，只是宁州道友抬爱云汐城而已。纵是极品盈手露也不过是所含灵气与回味更为浓郁，仙酿实是不敢当。¤My fellow daoist {FirstName}{$NickName}, you're just joking. It's just that our friend from Ningzhou values Yun Shi City. Even the highest-quality Ying Hand Dew only has stronger spiritual energy and aftertaste. Calling it a celestial brew would be too much.
近日府中有门人叛逃，此人约为金丹中期实力，如今也只知道他在逸风城与竹山宗交界处曾出现，且从围捕中逃脱后不知去向，料想还在那一带。¤Recently, there was a disciple who defected from the sect. He was at the mid golden core stage and was last seen in Yifeng City near the boundary of Bamboo Mountain Sect. After escaping from the pursuit, his whereabouts are currently unknown but it is believed that he is still in that area.
极品...¤Best...
只消片刻，府内仆从便已是为你取来一坛盈手露。只一入手，隔着泥封你都能闻到独特的清香，神识扫过，坛内灵气之浓郁更是令人讶异，确是灵酒中的极品。¤In just a moment, the servants in the mansion have already brought you a jar of ying hand dew. As soon as you touch it, you can smell its unique fragrance even through the mud seal. If you scan it with your soul sense, you will be amazed by the richness of spiritual energy inside the jar, which is definitely a top-quality elixir.
公孙季说到此处便是面露难色，没有继续下去，你也是迅速领会其中深意。¤Gongsun Ji's expression turned troubled when he spoke up to this point. He didn't continue and you quickly understood the underlying meaning.
{FirstName}道友请在此休息片刻，待在下向大长老请示一番。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, please rest here for a moment. I will go consult with the Grand Elder.
不愧是{FirstName}{$NickName}，我公孙府几十位修士围杀这叛徒半月几无进展，{FirstName}{$NickName}出手竟是手到擒来，佩服佩服。¤Impressive, {FirstName}{$NickName}. Several dozen cultivators from the Gongsun House have been trying to hunt down this traitor for half a month with little progress. But you managed to capture him so easily. Well done, well done.
近日有风雨楼中人无端叛逃，此人约为金丹中期实力，修有风雨楼秘术。如今也只知道他在逸风城与竹山宗交界处曾出现，且从围捕中逃脱后不知去向，料想还在那一带。¤Recently, a person from Storm Manor has betrayed them for no reason. This person has the strength of Mid Golden Core and has studied the secret arts of Storm Manor. Currently, it is only known that they have appeared near the boundary between Yifeng City and Bamboo Mountain Sect, and it is expected that they are still in that area after escaping from the pursuit.
{size=26}星...{/size}¤{size=26}Star...{/size}
极品盈手露的存在乃是府中之秘，{FirstName}道友既然已经知悉其存在，在下也就不卖关子了。¤The existence of the top-tier Ying Hand Dew is a secret of the household. Fellow daoist {FirstName}, since you have already become aware of its existence, I will not beat around the bush any longer.
只消片刻，府内仆从便已是为你取来两坛盈手露。只一入手，隔着泥封你都能闻到独特的清香，神识扫过，坛内灵气之浓郁更是令人讶异，确是灵酒中的极品。¤In just a moment, the servants in the mansion have already brought two barrels of ying hand dew for you. As soon as you hold it, you can smell its unique fragrance even through the mud seal. With your soul sense, you can feel the strong spiritual energy inside the barrel, which is truly an excellent spirit wine.
来人，去为{FirstName}{$NickName}取两坛极品盈手露。¤Someone, go fetch two barrels of the finest Ying Hand Dew for {FirstName}{$NickName}.
呃...没有？{size=26}难道星铃儿在耍我？{/size}¤Uh... nothing? {size=26}Is Star Bell playing a trick on me?{/size}
但是此人精通匿踪，一时难以...久闻{FirstName}{$NickName}战力超群，若是能为在下解除此忧，极品盈手露自会双手奉上。¤However, this person is skilled in hiding, making it difficult to locate them for now... I have heard of {FirstName}{$NickName}'s exceptional combat abilities. If you can relieve my worries, I will gladly offer you a bottle of top-quality Ying Hand Dew.
公孙府向来只产上中下三品盈手露，不知{FirstName}道友从何听说极品一说？¤The Gongsun House has always only produced Ying Hand Dew of upper, middle, and lower third grades. I wonder where Fellow Daoist {FirstName} heard of the top-grade version?
戮仙剑落入魔门手中，宁州恐生大变......¤The Immortal Executing Sword has fallen into the hands of the demonic sect, and there may be a great upheaval in Ningzhou...
不好意思，宗门中还有许多待处理的事宜，道友请自便。¤I'm sorry, there are still many matters to be dealt with in the clan. Fellow daoist, please feel free to leave.
长老请二位前去。¤Elders, please go ahead.
我是小姐还是你是小姐，居然过问起我来了？¤Am I Miss or are you Miss, asking about me?
别贫了你。¤Don't be poor.
马上就要去长老堂了，记住等下{color=#d0380a}千万不要说错话{/color}。¤I am about to go to the Elder Hall. Remember, {color=#d0380a}do not say anything wrong{/color} later.
去禀报长老我回来了。¤Go and report to the elders that I have returned.
是小的僭越了，二小姐稍等，我这便去通报。¤I have exceeded my boundaries, Second Miss please wait, I will go report immediately.
过会儿我说什么是什么，你顺着我的话演就成了。¤In a little while, I'll tell you what to say, and you can follow my lead.
林沐心白了你一眼。¤Lin Muxin gave you a white look.
遵命，林二小姐。¤Yes, Mistress Lin Er.
好的二小姐，这位是......？¤Miss Er, who is this...?
如今除了这头伤人的妖兽，这附近也该恢复太平了吧。¤Now, besides this spirit beast that harms people, shouldn't the surrounding area have recovered peace?
你落荒而逃，这才保住一条性命。¤You fled in a panic, only then did you manage to preserve your life.
师兄这边进展如何？¤How is the progress on your side, senior brother?
抱歉，让你提起这个。¤Sorry to bring this up for you.
因为是同族，有些感同身受吧。¤As the same clan, we can empathize with each other.
这边凤火涅槃阵即将启动。师尊的第八劫也要开始了，麟庙要封闭20年，恕不远送还请见谅。¤The Phoenix Nirvana Formation is about to be activated. Our Master's eighth calamity is also about to begin. The Lin Temple will be closed for 20 years and we regret that we are unable to send far-off guests off. Please forgive us.
你将所见所闻，告知钟焰。¤You will inform Zhong Yan of everything you see and hear.
此事宗门内部已安排妥当。由你我二人先行查探以接应宗门后续弟子。¤The clan has already made arrangements for this matter. You and I will investigate first and wait to receive the disciples who will come after us.
这次{shidi}你暗中探查没有打草惊蛇。¤This time, you didn't startle the snakes while secretly investigating, {shidi}.
{shidi}是想知道，我为何对这豹麟兽如此执着么？¤{shidi} is curious why I am so fixated on this leopard beast.
据我后续探知，玄古门已覆灭于内乱。¤According to my subsequent investigation, the Profound Ancient Sect has been destroyed in an internal conflict.
我这边也是进展不错。¤My side is also making good progress.
既然麟尊大人已经开始疗伤了，那我这就告辞了。¤Since Lord Linzun has already started to heal his injuries, I will take my leave.
多谢{shidi}。¤Thank you {shidi}.
嗯...{shidi}路上小心。¤Hmm... Take care on your journey, {junior fellow}.
（没想到竟还有这段隐秘。）¤(Unexpectedly, there is still this hidden information.)
师兄，若无吩咐我就出发了？¤Senior brother, should I depart without any further instructions?
可以的话，把他带回来见我吧。¤If possible, bring him back to see me.
（此人竟然是妖族么，我竟然全然没有发现。）¤(This person is actually a demon clan member, and I never even noticed.)
这次外门弟子有五十人深种魔神蛊之外，内门弟子仅有两人。¤This time, there were fifty outer disciples who successfully cultivated the devil god gu, while only two inner disciples were able to do so.
你将所见所闻一一告知。¤You will report everything you see and hear.
好¤Alright.
这两件宝物你且收好。¤Keep these two treasures for now.
哪有，这一次仅仅是我个人委托。¤Where, this time it's just my personal commission.
好的，钟师兄。¤Okay, Senior Brother Zhong.
客气了。¤You're welcome.
...嗯..辛苦{shidi}了，这古神教果然对我门贼心不死。¤Hmm...{shidi}, you've worked hard. The ancient god sect truly has an unyielding animosity towards our sect.
我还没有五品妖丹¤I haven't made a demon core of five ranks yet.
{FirstName}{shidi}来得好快。¤{FirstName} {shidi} arrived so quickly.
钟焰没有理会面露震惊的你，继续往下说。¤Zhong Yan didn't pay attention to your shocked expression and continued speaking.
这剑本就是随手之作，{shidi}你就留着吧，等以后再为{shidi}做个更好的。¤This sword was just made on a whim. Keep it, junior apprentice, I'll make a better one for you in the future.
{shidi}可听说过豹麟兽？¤Have you heard of the Panthera Unicorn Beast, {shidi}?
说罢两件法宝从他的储物袋飞出。¤After speaking, two artifacts flew out from his storage pouch.
{shidi}言重了，反倒是我想的不周险些让你深入险境。¤{shidi}, you're being too harsh. It was actually my lack of foresight that almost led you into danger.
你感受到地底一阵剧烈的能量，炙热的火之灵力好似连空气都点燃了。¤You feel a violent energy from the underground, and the scorching power of fire seems to ignite even the air.
钟师兄，有事但说无妨。¤Senior brother Zhong, please speak if there's something you need.
豹麟兽一族乃是含有麒麟血脉的异兽，近沃焦山中似是有其踪迹，我想要拜托{shidi}调查一番。¤The leopard lin beast clan is a group of exotic beasts that possess the bloodline of the qilin. There seems to be some trace of them near Inferno Mountain, so I would like to ask {shidi} to investigate it.
（一只妖兽需要如此重视么，不过看他的样子似是另有隐情，这沃焦山之行还是速速动身吧。）¤(Does a spirit beast require such importance, but judging from his appearance, there seems to be another hidden reason. Let's set off to Inferno Mountain quickly for this journey.)
家师所需的灵物我已找时间凑齐了。¤I have gathered the spiritual objects that my master needs.
我这边要先暗地里对这些深种蛊虫的弟子一一处理，等处理完此事。我们就去巫山走一趟，看看这古月寨是否已经是我宁州眼皮子底下的魔窟。¤I need to secretly handle each of the disciples who have been deeply infected by these gu worms first. Once this matter has been taken care of, we will go on a trip to Mt. Wu to see if the Gu Yue tribe has become a den of demons under my nose in Ningzhou.
{shidi}路上小心。¤Be careful on the road, {shidi}.
{shidi}还请快快行事。¤{shidi}, please act quickly.
此{shidi}深入虎穴，这两枚焚天火玉是我个人收藏还请收下。\n¤This {shidi} has ventured into the tiger's den, these two fire jade of burning heaven are my personal collection, please accept them.
如果不是师傅现在我应该已经是冢中枯骨了吧。¤If it weren't for my master, I would probably be a pile of dry bones in the tomb by now.
嗯，这售卖丹药的长老竟然还有这等手段，看来这玄古门和古神教颇有瓜葛。¤Wow, this elder who sells medicinal pills actually has such skills. Seems like there is a strong connection between the Profound Ancient Sect and the Ancient God Sect.
这是我个人的一个请求，{shidi}若是不方便就不麻烦了。¤This is a personal request of mine, {shidi}, if it is inconvenient, then there's no need to trouble yourself.
多谢{shidi}帮忙收集这些木系灵物。¤Thank you {shidi} for helping to collect these spiritual objects of the wood element.
最近诸事繁多我抽不开身，多亏了你奔波劳碌。¤Recently, I've been busy with many things and couldn't spare any time. Thanks to you for working hard and running around.
当前进度：（{$TempValue}/30）¤Current Progress: （{$TempValue}/30）
若是唐突了，就当我没问过吧。¤If it's impolite, just pretend I didn't ask.
此事宗门内部还没有安排妥当。¤This matter has not yet been arranged properly within the clan.
我还没有六品妖丹¤I don't have a sixth-grade demon core yet.
眼前的钟焰眉头紧皱，似是心事重重。¤The Zhong Yan in front of me furrowed their brow, appearing burdened by worries.
我还没有梧桐木¤I don't have any parasol wood yet.
庆幸的是宗门金丹长老无人中招。¤Fortunately, none of the golden core elders from the clan were affected.
（同族？）¤(Same clan?)
（表情略显无奈）{shidi}以后还会见到他的。¤(With a somewhat helpless expression) You will see him again in the future, {shidi}.
说罢钟焰停顿了一下，面露追忆之色。¤After speaking, Zhong Yan paused for a moment, with a look of nostalgia on his face.
没关系，还是我唐突了，此时我再想想办法。¤It's alright, I was being rude. I'll think of another solution.
当年我也是在追捕之下走投无路，所幸遇到了正在游历的师傅。¤In those years, I was also desperate under pursuit, luckily I met my master who was traveling.
你示意他继续。¤You signaled for him to continue.
道友，您是来我天机阁寻开心的吗？¤Fellow Daoist, are you here at our Heavenly Secrets Pavilion to seek amusement?
龙皇果乃是化龙海的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Sovereign Drakefruit is a specialty of the Shifting Dragon Sea, I am sorry that the Heavenly Machine Pavilion in Ningzhou is unable to locate it.
道友想要调查哪个种类的情报？¤Fellow Daoist, which category of information do you want to investigate?
渊血冥花乃是无尽海渊的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The abyssal bloodbloom is a specialty of the Endless Abyss. Forgive me, as the Heavenly Machine Pavilion in Ningzhou is unable to search for it.
冰灵焰草乃是雷鸣海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤Frostblaze Grass is a specialty of the Thunder Sea region, forgive me as the Heavenly Machine Pavilion of Ningzhou is unable to procure it.
对方无语的看着你。¤The other person looks at you speechlessly.
七彩月兰乃是吞云海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Rainbow Moon Orchid is a specialty of the Swallowing Cloud Sea region, and I apologize that the Heavenly Machine Pavilion in Ningzhou is not able to search for it.
问道花乃是图南海的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Dao Seeker Flower is a special product of the South Tu Sea. Please forgive the Heavenly secrets pavilion of Ningzhou for being unable to search for it.
这{SayStcVal=1012}的情报，我天机阁会尽快查到，用传音符送到你手上的。¤I will quickly investigate this intelligence and send it to you using a sound talisman from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion {SayStcVal=1012}.
道友上次委托我天机阁的事，我们还在调查。¤Fellow Daoist, regarding the matter you entrusted to the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion, we are still investigating.
三尾风叶乃是东海的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The windsoul leaf is a specialty of the East Sea. I'm sorry, but the Heavens Secrets Pavilion of Ningzhou is unable to locate it.
厉魂血珀乃是玄冥海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The ravenous soul amber is a specialty of the deep black sea, forgive our inability at the Heavenly Machine Pavilion in Ningzhou to search for it.
天蝉灵叶乃是岱舆山的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Skyscada Leaf is a specialty of Daiyu Mountain. I apologize as the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion of Ningzhou is unable to search for it.
腐骨灵花乃是幽冥海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Earth Matriarch Petal is a specialty of the Deep Hell Sea. Please forgive the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion of Ningzhou for being unable to search for it.
这位道友来我天衍阁可有吩咐？¤Fellow daoist, do you have any instructions for me to fulfill at the Heavenly Derivative Pavilion?
三叶青芝乃是浪方海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Trileaf Azure Shroom is a specialty of the Langfang Sea region, and unfortunately the Heavenly Machine Pavilion of Ningzhou is unable to search for it.
若是没有到有想要的，我天机阁也可派遣人力打探。¤If you haven't found what you were looking for, our Heavens Secrets Pavilion can dispatch agents to gather information for you.
道蕴花乃是图南海的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤Dao Touched Flower is a special product of South Tu Sea, and forgive me, but the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion of Ningzhou is unable to search for it.
道友想要调查那个金属还是矿石？¤Fellow daoist, do you want to investigate that metal or ore?
黒天麻乃是幽冥海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤Black Tianma is a specialty of the Deep Hell Sea, I'm sorry that the Heavenly Machine Pavilion in Ningzhou is unable to search for it.
这{SayStcVal=1012}情报，道友需要花费{$temmoney}灵石。¤Fellow daoist, you need to spend {$temmoney} spirit stones for this {SayStcVal=1012} intelligence report.
绝魂草乃是阴冥海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Fellsoul Lily is a specialty of the deep Yin Sea region, and unfortunately, the Heavenly Machine Pavilion of Ningzhou is unable to search for it.
血玉竹乃是海上盛产的药材，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤Blood jade bamboo is a medicinal material abundant in the sea. Please forgive the Heavenly Machine Pavilion of Ningzhou for being unable to search for it.
雪玉骨参乃是阴冥海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤Frostbone ginseng is a unique product from the Deep Yin Sea region. Regrettably, as a member of the Heavenly Machine Pavilion in Ningzhou, I am unable to locate it.
鬼面花乃是玄冥海域的特产，恕我宁州天机阁无力寻找。¤The Hellfacade Petal is a specialty of the Deep Black Sea region, but unfortunately, I, from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion in Ningzhou, am unable to search for it.
我还没有那么多灵石。¤I don't have that many spirit stones yet.
化神期妖圣岂是我天机阁敢去招惹的？¤Void transformation stage demon saint, how could my Heavenly Machine Pavilion dare to provoke?
道友，气息有些陌生啊？¤Fellow Daoist, your aura feels a bit unfamiliar, don't you think?
喂~可不可以啊，不可以的话灵石我也够。¤Hey, is it possible? If not, I have enough spirit stones.
这可是六品梧桐木，传闻这可是神兽凤凰的伴生之物。道友若是看上，只要两枚黄泉再生丹或是修髓丹便换予道友。¤This is a sixth-grade parasol wood, it is rumored to be the companion of the mythical Phoenix. Fellow daoist, if you are interested, as long as you offer two rebirth pills or talent orb pills, I will exchange it with you.
道友是看上了么？¤Fellow daoist, are you interested in it?
这血菩提虽不说天地罕见，但一次拿出这么多也是惊人了。¤Although this Blood Bodhi Fruit is not rare in the world, it is still amazing to take out so many at once.
他换完转身离开，不过你注意到有人不怀好意的跟上了。¤He turned around and left after changing, but you noticed someone maliciously following him.
嗯？哦，没问题！没问题！此物便是道友的了！¤Hmm? Oh, no problem! No problem! This item is now yours, fellow daoist!
呦~这东西有点意思。¤Oh~ This thing is quite interesting.
一道矮小的人影从后方挤出来。¤A short figure squeezed out from behind.
血菩提？！这么多？¤Blood Bodhi Fruit?! So many of them?
这本就是一截根须，但若是手法得当，说不定也能焕发生机。若不是迫不得已，我才不会出售呢。¤This is just a piece of root whiskers, but with proper technique, it might be able to bring out vitality. If it weren't for necessity, I wouldn't sell it.
此人明显不简单，也不知道谁是猎物。¤This person is obviously not easy, and I don't know who the prey is.
呵呵，一截枯死的老树根也能吹得天花乱坠，若真是六品材料你又岂能置换这点东西？¤Hehe, even a withered old tree root can be blown up into a celestial flower. If this is really a sixth grade material, how can you exchange it for such a small thing?
黄泉再生丹和修髓丹我都没带，不过这个你看可以么？¤I didn't bring the Rebirth Pills or the Talent Orb Pills, but what about this? Can you use it for Cultivating the Marrow?
呼~~好险好险，我还是先走为妙。¤Phew~~that was really close, I better get going.
没想到这幻象居然如此厉害...¤I never thought that this illusion could be so powerful...
通过了幻象的考验，你的{color=#d0380a}心境{/color}提升了。¤After passing through the illusion test, your {color=#d0380a}mental state{/color} has improved.
你继续在幻阵中坚持，上百个幻象在你周围游荡，突然，又一个幻象向你扑了过来...¤You continue to persevere in the illusion array, with hundreds of illusions wandering around you. Suddenly, another illusion pounces towards you...
鲲角？怎么会出现在岛上？！等等，那我们站的地方岂不是？¤Kun horns? How could they appear on the island?! Wait, does that mean the place we're standing on...?
依我看，这压根就不是什么山峰，而是鲲的角。¤In my opinion, this is not a mountain at all, but the horn of a Kun.
但天地万物循环各有其道，自古以来反哺这片海域的，想来便是这鲲尸了。¤However, all things follow their own path in the cycle of heaven and earth. Since ancient times, it must have been this Kun's corpse that has nourished this sea.
奇怪...¤Strange...
你老就别打哑谜了，难道说什么呀？¤Stop playing dumb riddles, are you trying to say something?
老头，你有没有发现这个岛的灵气比其他岛浓郁几分，树木也茂密的多？¤Old man, have you noticed that the spiritual energy on this island is denser than on other islands, and the trees are much denser?
没错，这座岛恐怕就是鲲的尸身演化而来的。¤That's right, this island is probably evolved from the corpse of Kun.
别慌，你且看前面这个山峰，有没有想到什么？¤Don't panic, have you thought of something when you see that mountain ahead?
鲲族吞噬天地万物灵气，在海上几乎没有天敌，若没有补充的话，这里早就变成一片死海了。¤The Kun clan devours the spiritual energy of all things in heaven and earth, and they have almost no natural enemies in the sea. Without replenishment, this place would have become a dead sea long ago.
你不说我还没注意，这山峰怎么这般工整，简直像是出自匠人之手。¤You didn't say anything so I didn't notice, but why is this mountain peak so orderly? It looks like it was crafted by a skilled artisan.
竟然还有这层关系，当真是长见识了...¤I didn't expect there to be such a relationship, it's truly an eye-opener.
确实，这……难道说……？¤Indeed, this... Could it be...?
她与宁州古迹中那些被煞气附体的人情况有些相似，只是没有攻击性，也许我该从这方面考虑用什么丹药。¤Her situation is similar to those possessed by evil spirits in the Ning Province ancient ruin, but without any aggressive behavior. Perhaps I should consider using certain medicines from this perspective to help her.
{xiaozi}，你看仔细了。她可不是简单的不想理你。¤{xiaozi}, pay close attention. She's not just ignoring you without reason.
（也许我可以尝试一下用丹药治疗她。）¤(Maybe I can try using medicinal pills to treat her.)
碎星商会的人不是说了神识类丹药没有效果，你这{xiaozi}怎么还给她这类丹药。¤The Shattered Star Merchant Guild said that medicinal pills for the soul sense were useless, but you still gave her this pill, {xiaozi}.
你用灵力将丹药送入她口中。¤You use spiritual power to deliver the pill into her mouth.
听说你遇到过图南漩涡？¤I heard that you encountered the South Tu Whirlpool?
你能感觉到她的眼神相比之前灵动了几分，但还是一副神智不清的样子。¤You could feel a bit of liveliness in her eyes compared to before, but she still looked somewhat confused.
他沉默着看了你半刻后，倏地站起，一手捏法诀，一手成爪型，挥爪间灵气急速聚集，便已是向你展开攻势。¤After silently observing you for a moment, he suddenly stood up. With one hand forming a spell and the other forming a claw, he quickly gathered his spiritual energy and launched an attack towards you.
他的状态并没有同你预料的一般有所变化。不，也许这才是你预料中的状况。¤His status didn't change as you expected. No, perhaps this is the situation you expected.
你有去过图南海么？¤Have you been to the South Tu Sea?
（看来只有到漩涡才能揭开真相了，至少我们现在知道前往漩涡前需提升{color=#d0380a}心境{/color}，可以提前准备一番了。）¤(It seems that only by going to the vortex can we uncover the truth, but at least we now know that we need to improve our mental state before heading to the vortex. We can prepare in advance.)
我...终于还是把他们杀了么...¤I...finally killed them...
她又变得激动起来。你估摸着也不能问出来更多信息了，心想着不如就此离开，剩下的交给碎星商会自己处理了。¤She became excited again. You estimate that you can't get any more information out of her, and thought it would be better to leave it at that and leave the rest to the Shattered Star Merchant Guild to handle on their own.
看样子要是想从她这里打听出什么的话，只能先想办法治愈她了。¤It seems that if I want to find out anything from her, I will have to find a way to cure her first.
不！他们都是我杀的！不是妖物！¤No! I killed them all! They are not monsters!
好在她陷入异常太久，战力远不如初，仅过数招之后便已被你擒下，甚至都没对客栈造成什么损失。¤Fortunately, she had been trapped for too long and her battle prowess had significantly weakened. After just a few moves, you were able to capture her without causing any damage to the inn.
道友何故对我动手？¤Fellow daoist, why did you attack me?
道友口中的他们可是漩涡中的妖物？¤Fellow daoist, are they the monsters in the vortex that you mentioned?
（可能是幻境，她们一群元婴修士全部或者是有多人进入了漩涡内部。然后因为其它什么缘由，一同陷入了幻境，而她作为其中的最强者，活了下来。）¤(Possibly an illusionary realm, a group of nascent soul cultivators, either all of them or several of them, entered the vortex. Then, due to some other reason, they were all trapped in the illusionary realm, and she, as the strongest among them, survived.)
不如再回碎星商会问问。¤You might as well go back and ask the Shattered Star Merchant Guild again.
他们？道友说的他们是谁？¤Who are they that fellow daoist mentioned?
道友，我想打听一下，不知你可有时间？¤Fellow daoist, I would like to inquire, are you available at the moment?
你...不是他们...他们...去哪了...¤You're not them... Where did they go...
可惜我没有更多了。¤Unfortunately, I don't have any more.
（只是不知道她是怎么出来的，之后的百余年又发生了什么，为什么她一直表现出浑浑噩噩的状态。若不是诛仙剑在你这{xiaozi}身上，我甚至觉得她真是被煞气附体失了神志。）¤(I don't know how she came out, or what happened during the hundred years that followed. I don't know why she has always appeared to be in a daze. If it weren't for the immortal sword on your {xiaozi} body, I would even consider that she has been possessed by evil spirits and has lost her sanity.)
...，感谢道友相助，但我在幻境中与故友战斗了百余年，现在...有些乏了...道友若想交流一番还是以后吧。¤...Thank you, fellow daoist, for your assistance. However, I have been in combat with an old friend in the illusionary realm for over a hundred years now, and I am feeling a bit weary. It would be better to have a conversation at a later time if you still wish to.
（看来这人不太好沟通，还是去找其他人吧。）¤(It seems like this person is not easy to communicate with, let's go find someone else.)
（看来她口中的“他们”并不是漩涡中的妖物，而更可能是一起前往图南漩涡探索的其他修士。而且不知在漩涡里发生了什么，结果是她击杀了其他修士。）¤(It seems that the they she referred to weren't the monsters in the whirlpool, but rather other cultivators who went with her to explore the South Tu whirlpool. And something must have happened in the whirlpool, resulting in her killing the other cultivators.)
在你的期待中，他缓缓转过头来。¤In your anticipation, he slowly turned his head around.
唔，她看起来是神魂受损，看样子是在漩涡中遭遇了什么，正处于一种浑浑噩噩的状态。¤Hmm, she seems to have suffered damage to her soul. It looks like she encountered something in the whirlpool and is currently in a confused state.
这位{gongzi}，要参加下一次的拍卖会么？入场费只要1000灵石噢~¤Excuse me {gongzi}, would you like to participate in the next auction? The entrance fee is only 1000 spirit stones.
按照惯例，在拍卖成功后，我们还会收取您成交价的10%作为抽水。不过若是物品流拍，就不会再另外收取费用了。¤As customary, we will also charge you 10% of the final bid price as commission after a successful auction. However, if the item fails to sell, we will not charge any additional fees.
前辈，这是我们拍卖行的传音符印记，日后前辈若是想知道最新的拍品情况，直接用{color=#d0380a}传音符{/color}与我们联系便可。¤Senior, this is the sound talisman imprint of our auction house. In the future, if senior wants to know the latest auction items, simply use the {color=#d0380a}sound talisman{/color} to contact us.
为了保证拍卖会的质量，我们会请专门的鉴定师对拍品进行鉴定。因此，所有价值低于10000灵石的物品都是不允许在这里寄卖的。¤In order to ensure the quality of the auction, we will invite specialized appraisers to appraise the auction items. Therefore, items worth less than 10,000 spirit stones are not allowed to be consigned here.
没事别来烦我，一天到晚请安也不嫌烦得慌。不如多花些时间准备猎魔试炼，省得在天魔眼里落个身死道消的下场。¤Don't bother me if there's nothing important to say. You keep greeting me all day, making me annoyed. It's better to spend your time preparing for the Demon Hunting Trial, or else you might end up trapped in the Heavenly Devil's Eye and face death.
哼，三派之中唯有冰派独......算了，我与你说这些干什么，修炼如何了？¤Hmph, only the Ice Sect remains among the three sects...Forget it, why am I even telling you this? How about your cultivation progress?
上次算你厉害，我们再来！¤Last time you were powerful, let's do it again!
老子现在心情不好，劝你你别来找不痛快。¤Laozi is not in a good mood now, it is advised that you do not come to find dissatisfaction.
是来协助药园守卫的外门{shidi}吗？¤Is it the outer disciple here to assist in guarding the medicine garden, {shidi}?
{shidi}你这前往药园吧。¤{shidi}, please head to the medicine garden.
可是来协助药园守卫内门{shidi}？目前人手空缺，{shidi}的到来也是解了燃眉之急。¤But to come and assist in guarding the inner door of the medicinal garden, {shidi}? Currently, there is a shortage of manpower, and your arrival has resolved an urgent matter.
{shidi}你这前往药园吧。\n¤{shidi}, go to the medicine garden.
白鹿真人看起来心情不太好的样子，还是不要打扰他了...¤The Paragon White Deer looked like he was in a bad mood. It's best not to disturb him for now...
白鹿真人一言不发，不知在想些什么。¤The Paragon White Deer remained silent, and it was unclear what he was thinking.
今日来之前，我已下定决心。今日的比试无论胜负如何，我都准备辞去会长的职务，并退出长老会。¤Before coming here today, I've already made up my mind. Regardless of whether I win or lose in today's competition, I am prepared to resign from my position as the head of the association and withdraw from the Elder Council.
怎么会...怎么会这样...¤How could this...how could this be...
哈哈哈，既然比试结束了，那么按照商会的规矩，之后便准备重新选举会长吧。¤Hahaha, now that the competition is over, according to the rules of the Chamber of Commerce, let's prepare to re-elect the president.
你一剑刺穿了唐连峰的元婴。¤You pierced Tang Lianfeng's Nascent Soul with your sword.
会出现挑战本就是我的错，当年我冲击化神失败后修为大损，确实对于长老会疏于管理，这点我难辞其咎。¤It is my fault that challenges arise. After I failed to achieve deity transformation and suffered a great loss in cultivation, I was indeed lax in managing the elders. I cannot escape blame for this.
也不尽然，按规矩，上一任会长主动辞去职务时，有指定下任人选的权力。会长指定的人选在长老会选举时也有很大的价值。¤It's not entirely true. According to rules, the former president has the power to designate the next candidate when they step down from their position. The candidate designated by the president holds great value in the elders' council election.
{vpunch=10,0.5}什么？？¤What? {vpunch=10,0.5}
...罢了，的确是你们技高一筹。¤...Whatever, you guys are indeed more skilled.
这混元仙体丹虽说可以提升突破化神的成功率，但只靠它却是远远不够的...{FirstName}供奉最好还是做足完全准备以后再尝试突破。¤Although the Chaos Immortal Form Pill can improve the success rate of breakthrough deity transformation, it is not enough to rely solely on it... As a guest elder, {FirstName} should make full preparations before attempting to break through.
细细想来我曾听说过此人的名号，似乎并不光彩...对于这样的人，最好不要与之为敌，但也不能过于信任。其中尺度，四海兄还得好好考量才是。¤Upon careful thought, I've heard of this person's reputation before. It doesn't seem to be very honorable... It's best not to make enemies with someone like this, but also not to trust them too much. The measure of Si Hai must be carefully considered in dealing with Four Seas Brother.
哎，没想到事情会变成这样。¤Ah, I didn't expect things to turn out like this.
哈哈哈，那是自然，我已经将丹药带来了。¤Hahaha, that is natural. I have already brought the pill.
唐平，既然比试输了，那你们唐家提出的挑战自然作废，你可服气？¤Tang Ping, since you lost the competition, the challenge proposed by your Tang family is naturally invalid. Do you accept?
哼...我们唐家自然不会破坏商会的规矩，用不着你提醒。¤Hmph... Our Tang family will naturally not violate the rules of the trading association. You don't need to remind us.
多谢道友手下留情，我心服口服。¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for sparing me. I am convinced by your mercy.
四海兄，如此实力的强者，我们商会定要好好拉拢，切莫与之为敌啊。¤Four Seas brother, such a powerful expert must be properly brought in by our business group. Do not become enemies with him.
咳咳...咳咳咳...¤*Cough... Cough Cough...*
哈哈哈哈，我果然没有看错人。¤Hahaha, I knew I didn't misjudge you.
看来这场比试什么都没能改变。¤It seems that this competition hasn't changed anything.
不错，我建议立刻以传音符通知在各地的长老回南崖城，举办长老会议协商此事。¤Not bad, I suggest using the sound talisman to immediately notify the elders in various regions to come to South Cliff City for an elder meeting to discuss this matter.
接下来这段时间，想必长老会还有诸多事情需要处理。这是我的传音符印记，{FirstName}供奉若是还有事找我，可以用传音符与我联系。¤In the coming days, I'm sure the elder will have many things to attend to. This is my sound talisman imprint, if {FirstName} guest elder has any further matters, you can use the sound talisman to contact me.
真了不起...单论这种擂台比试的话，长老会中恐怕也无一人是他的对手。¤Amazing...If we're talking solely about this arena competition, there's probably not a single elder in the sect who can match him.
你有些实力，可惜还不是我的对手。¤Unfortunately, you have some strength, but you're still not my match.
会长，我并不认为如今商会内还有其它合适的人选，此事还是不要这么快下结论的好。¤President, I don't think there are any other suitable candidates within the guild right now. It's better not to draw conclusions so quickly about this matter.
抱歉，我没能打赢比试¤Sorry, I wasn't able to win the competition.
诸位稍安勿躁，听我说几句。¤Everyone, please calm down and listen to me for a few words.
连峰！¤Peak of Mountains!
这些都是你们商会自己内部需要解决的事，我这个所谓的供奉就帮不上什么忙了。¤These are all matters that your business association needs to solve internally. As a so-called 'guest elder,' I can't be of much help.
住...住手...我认输！¤Stop... I surrender!
按之前说好的，我打赢比试，你支付报酬。¤As we agreed before, if I win the competition, you will pay the reward.
这是我的传音符印记，{FirstName}供奉若是还有事找我，可以用传音符与我联系。¤This is my Sound Talisman mark. If {FirstName} needs to contact me for any reason, you can use the Guest Elder Sound Talisman to reach me.
罢了，那唐家后生确实了不起。恐怕这次长老会换选，他有很大的机会能够上位。¤Anyway, the younger generation of the Tang family is indeed impressive. It's possible that there will be a change of elder selection this time, and he has a great chance of coming into power.
不说这些了，接下来这段时间，想必长老会还有诸多事情需要处理。¤Not to mention these, in the following period of time, I believe the elder will have many other things to deal with.
认输吧，你数百年修成的元婴来之不易，我不杀你。¤Admit defeat, your nascent soul that you have cultivated for hundreds of years is not easy to come by, I won't kill you.
哈哈哈，吴四海，这就是你找来的帮手？¤Hahaha, Wu Sihai, is this the helper you found?
连斩我两名祭血使，我来会会你！¤I've slain two Blood Sacrificial Ritual users in a row, now it's your turn to face me!
不错，即便不需要第二味主药，至多不过浪费一株木灵三针花，却也不至于影响最后成丹。¤Not bad, even if the second main medicine is not needed, at most it would only waste one seed of the eternal world tree, but it would not affect the final pill formation.
你是说，木灵三针花或许不仅要作为辅药，同时也要作为主药使用？¤Are you saying that the Seed of the Eternal World Tree may not only be used as an auxiliary medicine, but also as the main medicine?
避劫丹？¤Avoidance pill?避劫？ Tribulation avoidance?
正是。不知{$TmpTalkString}有何见解？¤Indeed. I wonder what is {$TmpTalkString}'s opinion?
依我看，应当以化神期妖兽的妖丹作为主药，以木灵三针花作为辅药。¤In my opinion, the main medicine should be the demon core of a void transformation spirit beast, with the seed of the eternal world tree as a supplementary medicine.
原来如此...这样想来，无法确定属性的妖丹的确只能作为主药使用。¤Originally...thinking about it this way, it's impossible to determine the attributes of demon cores, so they can only be used as the main medicinal ingredient.
你们揭开丹炉，一阵浓郁的药香飘过，一颗通体浑圆的丹药光彩夺目的出现在了药鼎之内！¤As you open the alchemy furnace, a strong medicinal scent wafts out and a brilliantly shining round pill emerges from the medicine cauldron!
不管怎么说，还是要多谢{$TmpTalkString}这几日的帮助，眼下确实是没有其它的思路了，且看日后是否能有新的发现吧。¤Anyway, I want to thank {$TmpTalkString} for their help during these few days. At the moment, there are no other options, we'll have to see if there are any new discoveries in the future.
我曾经还听说过有一种用来拖延天劫到来时间的避劫丹，又或是还有别的我们不了解的丹药也未可知。¤I have also heard about a type of avoidance pill that can delay the arrival of heavenly tribulation, or there may be other elixirs that we are not familiar with that are yet to be discovered.
我倒是与{$TmpTalkString}有不同的想法。¤I actually have a different opinion than {$TmpTalkString}.
{$name}说干便干，当下就开始准备起炼丹需要的药材。¤{$name} wasted no time and began preparing the medicinal materials required for alchemy.
化神期妖兽的妖丹虽然难得，不过既然是用作主药，那么另换一种聚元药性的草药替代也是可行的。¤Although demon cores from void transformation spirit beasts are rare, if they are used as the main medicine, it is also feasible to replace them with another herb with coalescing properties.
以我们之间的交情，若有我能帮得上忙的地方，一定知无不言。¤With the friendship between us, if there is any way I can help, I will definitely speak up.
待我整理优化完这避劫丹的丹方，就赠予道友！¤Once I finish refining the recipe for this avoidance pill, I'll gift it to my fellow daoists!
原来如此...不愧是{$TmpTalkString}，竟连这等失传多年的丹药都能炼制出来，实在厉害！¤I see... no wonder {$TmpTalkString}, to be able to refine this long-lost pill, truly impressive!
这...{$TmpTalkString}是从何得到这避劫丹的炼制方式的？¤Um... {$TmpTalkString}, where did you get the recipe for the avoidance pill?
化神期妖兽的妖丹属性各不相同，若是作为辅药使用，药性完全无法确定。但若作为主药使用，那无论是何属性妖丹，皆是聚元药性。¤The demon cores of spirit beasts in the Void Transformation stage all have different attributes. If used as a supplementary medicine, the medicinal properties cannot be determined. But if used as the main medicine, regardless of the attribute of the demon core, it will have coalescing medicinal properties.
八日后...¤Eight days later...
你见状不再打扰他，独自离开了。¤You saw the situation and did not bother him anymore, and left alone.
既是要推敲丹方，这些损耗便是在所难免的。只是未能让这失传的古方重现天日，才是最可惜的。¤If one wants to carefully ponder over 丹方 , it's inevitable that some loss will occur. However, the greatest pity is not being able to revive the lost 古方 .
咳...只是运气好恰巧炼制出来罢了...¤Ahem... it's just that I happened to successfully refine it through good luck...
而且坎水玄冰果与木灵三针花皆是性寒的草药，如此一来，只需再配上一味性热的六品草药作为药引，便可成丹了！¤Moreover, the berry of the everfrost and the seed of the eternal world tree are both cold herbs. With this, just add a sixth grade herb with a hot property as a medicinal catalyst, and the pill can be formed!
此前我曾在宁州古迹中得到过一份残缺的丹方，上面虽然未曾记录完整的丹方，却提到了有些丹药需要用到两种不同的主药进行炼制。¤Previously, I obtained a partial recipe from the ancient ruins in Ning Province. Although it did not include a complete recipe, it mentioned that some elixirs required the use of two different main ingredients during refinement.
原来如此...若是古籍的记载无误，那只需弄清到底以哪味药材为主药，哪位为辅药，再加一位药引调和其寒热，便能复原这丹方了。¤So that's how it is... If the ancient texts are correct, then all we need to do is figure out which medicinal material is the main ingredient, which one is the auxiliary, and then use a medicinal guide to harmonize their hot and cold properties. With that, we can restore this recipe.
怎么会这样...¤How could this be...
总之...炼制这丹药需两味主药，一味聚元，一味生息，而辅药则需用到三份木灵三针花，再配以药引平衡寒热，便可成丹。¤In short, to refine this pill, we need two main ingredients: Coalescing and Birthing. For the auxiliary ingredients, we need three portions of Seed of the Eternal World Tree, along with a medicinal guide to balance the cold and heat. That will enable us to create the pill.
毕竟是失传的古方，的确有这种可能。¤After all, it is a lost ancient recipe, so it is possible.
你们揭开丹炉，隐约有一阵淡淡的药香飘过。可惜丹药并没有被炼制成功，只在炉底形成了一层厚厚的药渣。¤You open the alchemy furnace, and a faint aroma of medicine drifts out. Unfortunately, the pills were not successfully refined, and only a thick layer of medicine dregs formed at the bottom of level 1.
不过古籍上本身就只说这是为了渡劫而准备的材料，却未曾明说是用来炼制化劫丹的...¤However, the ancient texts only mention that these materials are prepared for tribulation, but they do not explicitly state that they are used to refine tribulation pills...
只能如此了...¤This is all that can be done...
或许是古籍有所遗漏，少了一味辅药...又或者这上面记载的本就是作者随意杜撰的。¤Perhaps there was a missing adjunctive medicine in the ancient texts... Or maybe what was recorded here was just the author's arbitrary fabrication.
原来你说的是避劫丹。¤Oh, you were talking about the avoidance pill.
{$TmpTalkString}来的正好，我这几日仔细推演这古方，正有许多的问题想与你探讨。¤{$TmpTalkString} is here just in time. I've been carefully studying these ancient recipes for the past few days and have many questions I'd like to discuss with you.
可惜的是，这本书中只提及了那名化神期修士为此收集了化神期妖兽的妖丹，以及六品草药木灵三针花，却未曾提及其具体的炼制方式。¤Unfortunately, this book only mentions that the deity transformation cultivator collected demon cores from void transformation spirit beasts and sixth grade herbs such as the seed of the eternal world tree, but it does not mention the specific method of refinement.
不错，这是一种可以推迟天劫降临时间的丹药，正要用到木灵三针花炼制。但由于这丹药的副作用明显，因此已经失传多年了。¤Very well, this is a pill that can delay the arrival of the heavenly tribulation. It is precisely what I need the Seed of the Eternal World Tree to refine. However, due to its obvious side effects, it has been lost for many years.
产自极寒之地的坎水玄冰果似乎也是聚元药性，我在天机阁拍卖会上曾有幸拍得一枚。¤The berry of the everfrost, which is said to come from a land of extreme cold, seems to possess coalescing properties. I was fortunate enough to acquire one at the Heaven's Secrets Pavilion auction.
当下的另一难题是化神期妖兽的妖丹，寻常六品草药虽然稀有，但尚可寻得。这化神妖兽的妖丹却是不知从何寻来了...¤Another difficulty at the moment is the demon core of the void transformation spirit beasts. Though sixth grade herbs are rare, they can still be found. But the demon core of these deity transformation spirit beasts is unknown where to find...
{$name}说干便干，当下就开始准备起炼丹需要的药材...¤{$name} immediately began preparing the medicinal materials needed for alchemy, living up to their reputation as a swift and efficient individual.
只是可惜了那些珍贵的六品草药...¤Unfortunately, those precious sixth grade herbs were wasted...
你步入白帝楼的地火房，只见{$name}正伏案而作，不知在写些什么。¤You enter the Earth Fire Room of the White Emperor Pavilion, where you see {$name} hunched over a desk, writing away. It's unclear what they're working on.
成功了！这...这应该就是避劫丹！¤Success! This...this should be the avoidance pill!
不过，按寻常药理推断，化劫丹属临战防御类的丹药，通常该是用御气药性的主药炼制才对。¤However, based on common pharmacological knowledge, the tribulation pill belongs to the category of defense against imminent battles. Generally, it should be refined using the main medicine with the controlling property.
{$TmpTalkString}说的不错，此事我也有些疑惑。¤What {$TmpTalkString} said is not bad, I also have some doubts about this matter.
好，那就依{$TmpTalkString}所言，用这个配方尝试炼制一次吧。¤Alright, then we shall follow {$TmpTalkString}'s words and attempt to refine once using this recipe.
依我看，应当以木灵三针花作为主药，以化神期妖兽的妖丹作为辅药。¤In my opinion, we should use the Seed of the Eternal World Tree as the main medicine while using the Demon Cores of Spirit Beasts in the Void Transformation stage as auxiliary medicine.
这次真是多亏了{$TmpTalkString}的帮助，否则多半又是白忙活一场了。¤Thanks to {$TmpTalkString}'s help this time, otherwise it would have been another fruitless effort.
哈哈哈，{$TmpTalkString}与我所想不谋而合。¤Hahaha, {$TmpTalkString} coincides with my thoughts.
与渡劫相关的材料...莫非是那传闻中炼制方式早已失传的化劫丹？¤Are the materials related to tribulation... could it be the rumoured tribulation pill whose refining method has long been lost?
不过...或许还有一种可能？¤But... perhaps there is still one possibility?
只有六品丹炉能够承受两种不同的主药间的药性冲突...但不管怎么说，值得一试。¤Only a sixth-grade furnace can withstand the conflicting medicinal properties of two different main ingredients...but no matter what, it's worth a try.
等等...木灵三针花？¤Wait...Seed of the Eternal World Tree?
此前传音中与你提及的那本古籍，其实是不久前我在一个交易会中换得的。¤The ancient book that was mentioned in our previous communication was actually one that I exchanged for at a recent trade event.
炉底还有一些药渣，看来只是辅药的数量放多了，与主药无关。¤There are still some medicine dregs at the bottom of the furnace, it seems that there are just too many supplementary medicines and they have nothing to do with the main medicine.
我也是如此猜测的，因此才抱着试一试的想法，从那人手中换得了这本古籍。¤I guessed as much, that's why I took the chance and exchanged for this ancient book from that person's hands with the idea of giving it a try.
这本古籍原本只是记载了一些虚无缥缈的奇闻轶事，但其中居然提到了某位化神修士为了渡劫而准备的炼丹材料。¤This ancient book originally only recorded some ethereal and incredible stories, but it unexpectedly mentioned a cultivator who was preparing materials for alchemy in order to undergo deity transformation and pass tribulations.
只有药渣，连废丹也未能炼成...说明我们推测的丹方完全是错误的。¤Only medicine dregs remained, and not even an abolished pill was successfully refined... This indicates that our speculated recipe was completely wrong.
{$TmpTalkString}，正如你所说，炼制这丹药需要同时用到两种不同的主药！¤{$TmpTalkString}, just as you said, refining this pill requires the use of two different main medicines at the same time!
没想到真是这样...失传多年的丹方终于能够重现天日，也不枉你这些时日付出的心血啊。¤Unexpectedly, it's really like this... The lost recipe for many years can finally see the light of day again. Your hard work in these days is not in vain.
我这便按{$TmpTalkString}所言，尝试炼制一番！¤I will try to refine it as {$TmpTalkString} instructed!
金虹剑派？¤Golden Rainbow Sword Sect?
我派与金虹剑派素来交好，两派合力举办宗门大比也已经是很多年来的一个传统了。虽然只是外门比试，但也事关宗门荣誉，各位长老对此都非常重视。¤My sect has always had a good relationship with the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, and the two sects have jointly held the clan competitions for many years. Although it is only an outer sect competition, it is still related to the honor of the clan, and all the elders take it very seriously.
凡是在大比中表现出色的，都可以获得一枚筑基丹作为奖励。¤Anyone who performs well in the grand competition can gain a foundation pill as a reward.
我很期待你在宗门大比上的表现。¤I am looking forward to your performance in the clan competitions.
还有一件重要的事情你须得记住，我派每隔三十年会与金虹剑派联袂举办宗门大比，所有炼气期的弟子皆可参加。¤There is one important thing you must remember, every thirty years our sect will join hands with the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect to hold the clan competitions, all disciples in the qi refining stage can participate.
好了{shidi}，你入门的相关事项都已经处理完毕了。¤Alright {shidi}, all the matters regarding your initiation have been taken care of.
你在门派内的居所刚刚我已经派人打扫干净，宗门内的大部分地方你都可以随意走动，这是你的宗门道袍。¤I have just sent someone to clean your residence within the sect. You may freely move around most areas of the clan. Here is your clan robe.
看来此物的灵气已然溃散。¤It seems that the spiritual energy of this object has already dissipated.
灿，{color=#d0380a}火{/color}...{color=#d0380a}山{/color}......到底想表达什么呢？¤What exactly does Can, {color=#d0380a}Fire{/color}...{color=#d0380a}Mountain{/color}...... want to express?
你小心翼翼地想捡起玉简，但是在触碰到的时候玉简就消散了。¤You carefully tried to pick up the jade slip, but it dissipated upon your touch.
路边草丛中似有一物隐隐发光，你上前探查，发现是一枚玉简。火红如焰的上等玉料不知因何散发出一股令人生厌的气息。你决定...\n¤There seems to be something faintly glowing in the grass by the roadside. You go up and investigate, and find a jade scroll. The top-quality jade material is fiery red and emits a nauseating odor for some reason. You decide to...
你小心翼翼地捡起玉简，仔细盘查后并没有发现那股气息的源头。一个潦草的“灿”字印于其上，让你百思不得其解。¤You carefully picked up the jade slip and thoroughly examined it, but did not find the source of that energy. A sloppy brilliance character was imprinted on it, leaving you baffled.
是名为“灿”的人遗失了玉简吗？又或者是一个谜题？¤Did someone named Can lose a jade scroll? Or is it a riddle?
恒如生性贪婪，所谓的师徒情分，不过是他为了达成目的所用的托词而已。¤Heng Ru Sheng was inherently greedy, and the so-called master-disciple relationship was just an excuse he used to achieve his goals.
此时，手持戮仙剑的玄骨真人也完成了术法，戮仙剑在他手中嗡嗡地轻鸣着。你感受到背后铁剑呼应般的震动，一刻也不敢放松神经，小心地盯着对方的举动。¤At this moment, Xuan Bone expert, holding the Immortal Executing Sword, finished his incantation. The sword hummed lightly in his hand. You feel a responding vibration from the iron sword on your back, and dare not relax for a moment, carefully watching the expert's movements.
你攻势凌厉迅猛，恒如真人很快便呈出落败的迹象。而手持戮仙剑的大护法的蓄势也进入尾声，戮仙剑在他手中嗡嗡地轻鸣着。¤Your attack was fierce and swift, causing the possible defeat of the expert, Paragon Eternal Harmony. As the grand protector with the Immortal Executing Sword gathered momentum, the sword hummed lightly in his hand, indicating that his power was nearing its peak.
虽然恒如生性贪婪，但毕竟师徒一场，也教过你不少东西。到真要下手时，你却是迟疑了。¤Although Heng Rusheng is naturally greedy, but after all, you were once master and disciple, and he has also taught you quite a lot. When it came time to take action, you hesitated.
战后，大护法戮仙剑的蓄势也进入尾声，局势依然刻不容缓。¤After the war, the gathering momentum of the Immortal Executing Sword wielded by the Great Guardian is also coming to an end, yet the situation remains urgent.
“罢了…看这战况，就算不杀他应该也活不久了，就任他自生自灭吧。”¤It's fine...looking at the situation of the battle, even if we don't kill him, he won't live much longer. Let him be and let fate handle the rest.
只见倪旭欣凭空凝聚出数十把巨大的灵气飞剑，向恒如真人刺去。¤I saw Ni Xuxin conjure dozens of huge spiritual energy flying swords out of thin air, stabbing towards Paragon Eternal Harmony.
你便不再管他，随即观察起场上的形势。¤You ignore him and immediately observe the situation on the field.
哈哈哈，我的万剑诀终于练成了，再吃我一剑！¤Hahaha, my Ten Thousand Swords Skill has finally been mastered. Take this, my sword!
只见古神教护法高举戮仙剑，斩向身后的巨大石壁。猎猎破空声后巨大的轰鸣骤然响起，一股奇异的空间波动扩散至整个大殿。¤I saw the guardian of the Ancient God Sect raise the Immortal Executing Sword high and slash towards the massive boulder behind them. A piercing sound broke through the air before a deafening roar reverberated throughout the entire hall. A strange spatial fluctuation then spread outwards.
不得已之下，恒如只得调动更多的飞尘进行防御，周围的其它众人见此情形，也一起加紧了攻势。那恒如真人双拳难敌四手，很快便呈出落败的迹象。¤Under no other option, Paragon Eternal Harmony had to bring in more flying dust to increase defense. Seeing this situation, other experts around also intensified their attack. The expert, Paragon Eternal Harmony, found it difficult to fight against four hands with just two fists and soon showed signs of defeat.
更何况战况万分危急，你当机立断，一掌震散恒如真人的元神。随即便观察起了场上的形势。¤Moreover, the situation in the battle was extremely critical. Acting decisively, you shattered the yuan god of Paragon Eternal Harmony with a palm strike. Then, you immediately observed the situation on the field.
奄奄一息的恒如真人在你面前，生与死或许就在你的一念之间。¤The dying Paragon Eternal Harmony is before you, and the fate of life and death may be determined by a single thought of yours.
看剑！¤Look at my sword!
恒如随手操控起一团飞尘便想将飞剑拦下，谁知这些飞剑的威能竟远超他的想象，刚一接触就将他的尘盾击溃。¤Heng tried to block the flying swords with a dust shield that he controlled easily, but to his surprise, the swords were far more powerful than he had anticipated, and they shattered his dust shield upon contact.
你感受到背后铁剑呼应般的震动，一掌震散恒如真人的元神，小心地盯着大护法的举动。¤You feel the iron sword behind you tremble in response, and you shake off the yuan god of paragon eternal harmony with a palm, carefully watching the movements of the expert guardian.
忽然间，你莫名期望他能向你求饶。只要他向你开口求饶了，纵然有一万个杀他的理由，你也可以留他一条生路。¤Suddenly, you inexplicably hoped that he would beg for mercy from you. As long as he pleaded with you, even if there were ten thousand reasons to kill him, you could spare his life.
但他仍旧躺在那里，奄奄一息。¤But he still lay there, gasping for breath.
金虹剑派每年都会举办仙资大会，招收外门弟子。但门派对门下弟子的悟性要求极高，因此很少有人能够通过测试。¤Every year, the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect holds an Immortal Resources Conference to recruit outer disciples. However, the sect requires an extremely high level of comprehension from its disciples, so only a few are able to pass the test.
听说星河剑派每年会在宗门大殿设立测试，招收资质优上的女修士入门。若是想要修习水系功法，星河剑派定是不二之选。唉，可惜人家只收女修......¤I heard that the Celestial River Sword Sect sets up tests in the great hall of the clan every year, recruiting female cultivators with excellent aptitude. If you want to cultivate water-based techniques, the Celestial River Sword Sect is the best choice. Unfortunately, they only accept female cultivators...
传闻各大宗门又开始招收外门弟子了。可惜我资质平平，怕是没机会了……¤Rumours have it that the major clans have begun recruiting outer disciples again. Unfortunately, as a member of the clan with average aptitude, I fear I won't have the chance...
此去西方三百里，竹山宗便坐落在一片竹林幻海之中，连修仙者都会迷失其中。就算诚心入门，也要经过层层比试，成功者寥寥无几啊。¤Three hundred baili to the west lies the Bamboo Mountain Sect, situated within a sea of bamboo forests. Even cultivators may become lost in its mesmerizing allure. Those who seek to join must pass through numerous competitions and tests, with only a select few succeeding.
只要踏入那沃焦山，你便明白离火门为何以火为名。其整个山门更是通体赤红，浮空于沃焦山之上。若是想精修火系，这或许是最理想的宗门。¤Once you step foot on Inferno Mountain, you will understand why the Fire Gate Sect is named after fire. Its entire gate is a bright red color, floating above Inferno Mountain. If you want to cultivate your skills in fire, this may be the most ideal clan for you.
化尘教位于宁州西侧的沙漠中，是五大门派之一。其教弟子擅用土系灵气，防御力远胜同阶修士。道友若是对防御方面的神通感兴趣，那化尘教自然最适合你。不过近几年化尘教一直闭门谢客，似乎是门派中发生了什么变故。¤The Shifting Sand Sect is located in the desert to the west of Ningzhou and is one of the five major sects. Its disciples excel in the use of earth-based spiritual energy, and their defense is far superior to that of other cultivators at the same level. Fellow cultivators who are interested in defensive divine skills will find the Shifting Sand Sect to be the most suitable for them. However, in recent years, the sect has been closed and has not received visitors. It appears that something unfortunate has happened within the sect.
9010，岛屿修士争斗（主线）¤9010, Island Cultivator Conflict (Main plot)
无尽之海上有着许多的灵气乱流，心志不够坚定者会在其中迷失自我。它不似凶兽或敌手的攻击那般引人注目，所以常被修士忽视。¤On the Endless Sea, there are many chaotic spiritual currents that can cause those with weak wills to lose themselves. Unlike the noticeable attacks of beasts or enemies, it is often overlooked by cultivators.
你将那修士败于剑下，采摘了成熟的草药后转身离开此地。¤You defeated the cultivator with your sword, then turned around and left after gathering the mature herbs.
你哪里想得到阵法内的修士手段如此厉害，急忙施展遁术逃出生天。¤You never expected the cultivators inside the array to be so powerful. You quickly used your mobility technique to escape for your life.
还有什么需要的么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Is there anything else you need?
卖给商会自然是方便，但这些寻常的材料商会也不愿意出太高的价钱。¤Selling to the guild is certainly convenient, but these common materials guilds are also reluctant to offer high prices.
精细海图倒是没有，不过我对这附近的海域倒还算熟悉。¤Although there's no precise sea map, I am quite well-known with the surrounding seas.
（身上的钱似乎不够了...）¤(The money on hand seems to be insufficient...)
你若是愿意出上100灵石，我便帮你把附近海岛的位置都标记出来。¤If you are willing to spend 100 spirit stones, I will help you mark the locations of the nearby islands.
一个普通的摊位，上面摆放的都是些杂七杂八的物件，摆摊者看起来只是一个普通的散修，你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤You come across a normal stall, with a variety of random items on display. The stall owner appears to be just a regular wandering cultivator. What will you do? {w}{w=0.5}
道友，看看有什么想买的？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow Daoist, take a look and see if there's anything you'd like to buy? {w} {w=0.5}
像我们这种独来独往的散修，是很难有那种机缘的。¤As independent cultivators like us, it's difficult to come across those kinds of opportunities.
至于他们愿意高价收购的稀有材料，无一不是要去危险海域才能弄到的东西，或是海上压根没有的稀有物件。¤As for the rare materials they're willing to buy at high prices, they're all things that can only be obtained by venturing into dangerous waters or rare objects that aren't found at sea.
你察觉她的气息波动颇为诡异，但却说不出其中的门道。¤You sense that her aura is quite strange, but you can't figure out the reason behind it.
她冷漠地看了你一眼，并没有理睬你的搭讪。¤She looked at you with indifference and didn't respond to your attempts to strike up a conversation.
按常理来讲，修士的修为愈高，神魂则愈凝练。可我观此人灵力浑厚，已有金丹巅峰修为，魂魄不凝反散，聚合中隐有割裂之相。¤According to convention, as a cultivator's cultivation level gets higher, their soul becomes more condensed. However, upon observing this person's spiritual power, they have already reached the peak of Golden Core cultivation, yet their soul is not condensed and seems to be fragmented while gathering.
奇怪...奇怪..¤Strange... Strange...
很明显魏无极也感受到了这份异样，并追溯出其源头或许是此人修练的功法。¤It's obvious that Wei Wuji also felt this anomaly, and traced it back to possibly being related to the technique he practiced.
不错，但具体情况我也很难定论。¤Not bad, but I find it hard to make a specific judgment.
也就是说，这修士的神魂并不稳定？¤In other words, the cultivator's soul is not stable?
此人气息倒是与上次见到的那人有些相似，也不知这些人练得是何秘术...¤This person's aura is somewhat similar to the one I saw last time. I wonder what secret arts they have trained in...
魔门竟有如此计划...不好意思，道友，我还要和族中商议此事。¤The demon sect actually has such a plan... Sorry, fellow Daoist, I still need to discuss this matter with my clan.
魔门未免太目中无人...如此狂妄之徒......！¤The Demon Sect is far too full of themselves...such an arrogant person...!
而洞穴正中，一只巨大的噬金甲正停驻于此，不知原本在啃噬着什么金属。兴许是听见你那并不存在的脚步声，它正对你怒目而视。¤In the middle of the cave, a gigantic metal devourer was parked, gnawing on some unknown metal. Perhaps it heard your non-existent footsteps and glared angrily at you.
当你以为妖王不在，准备直接取走这暗槐玉时，那妖王不知从何处驱使藤蔓像你袭来。¤When you thought the demon king was not around and were ready to take the dark locust jade directly, the demon king somehow drove the vines to attack you.
及至通道尽头，一只地龙兽赫然出现在你眼前。¤As you reach the end of the passage, an earth dragon beast suddenly appears before your eyes.
更是有一只通体布满黑鳞的粗壮墨蛟御涛向你袭来。¤A thick and sturdy ink drake, its body covered in black scales, came rushing towards you.
但这能让作为金丹期修士的你都感到寒冷的洞穴中，也不知是有什么古怪，湖水竟没有结冰。¤However, even though you, as a cultivator in the golden core stage, may feel chilled in this peculiar cave, it's strange that the lake water hasn't frozen.
还好你辨认出眼前不过是一面藤蔓组成的绿墙，将其拨开后，谨慎地走入背后的巨大洞穴中。¤Fortunately, you recognized that the wall in front of you was nothing more than a green wall made of vines. After pushing it aside, you cautiously entered the huge cave behind it.
你还未走至洞底，灼热燎人的火灵气已是令你不由得驱使灵气抵抗。¤As you have yet to reach the bottom of the cave, the scorching heat from the fire spirit has already forced you to use your spiritual energy to resist it.
及至通道上都布满各类植物时，道路终于也是到了尽头。¤Until the passage was covered in all kinds of plants, the road finally came to an end.
而那{$NpcName}托你寻找的{$CaiLiaoName}正被他护在身后。¤And the {$NpcName} has the {$CaiLiaoName} that he asked you to find, protected behind him.
及至构成通道的岩石都隐约散发出金属光泽时，一个巨大的洞穴也猛地出现在你眼前。¤When the rocks that formed the passage started to emit a faint metallic shine, a massive cave suddenly appeared before your eyes.
随着金灵气越来越浓郁，你所在的通道也愈加宽阔起来。¤As the golden spiritual qi becomes more and more intense, the path you're on also becomes wider and wider.
随着火灵气越来越浓郁，你所在的通道也愈加宽阔起来。¤As the fire spirit energy grew stronger, the passageway you were in also widened.
随着水灵气越来越浓郁，你所在的通道也愈加宽阔起来。¤As the water spiritual energy becomes more abundant, the passage you are in also becomes wider.
只见昏暗的地下世界中，浓郁的木灵气从一块荧烁着幽绿光芒的玉状矿石中逸散而出。¤In the dim underground world, a strong essence of wood spirit emanated from a luminous jade-like ore shimmering with a faint green light.
正是{$NpcName}托你寻找的暗槐玉！¤It is indeed the Dark Acacia Jade that {$NpcName} entrusted you to find!
随着木灵气越来越浓郁，你所在的通道也愈加宽阔起来。¤As the spirit energy of the wooden spirits becomes more and more intense, the passage you are in also becomes wider and wider.
不等你犹豫，这噬金甲已是毫不犹豫地像你冲撞而来。\n¤Without waiting for your hesitation, this metal devourer is already charging towards you without any hesitation.
随他一同出现的，还有散发出赤红光芒的火系神通！¤Along with him appeared a fire divine skill emitting a crimson light!
辽阔的水域中心，一块蓝色的通透晶矿不断逸散着寒气。¤In the center of the vast water area, a piece of translucent blue crystal ore constantly emits cold air.
正当你快得手时，却见原本了无波澜的湖泊竟是惊涛骤起！¤Just as you were about to strike, the previously calm lake suddenly stirred up a tidal wave!
你也不想一探究竟，只想驾驭法宝凌空掠过，直接取走那中心的通透晶矿。¤You don't care about finding out what's going on, you only want to control the artifact and fly through the air to directly take the transparent crystal ore at the center.
当你来到通道的尽头时，却发现此处竟是地下湖泊。¤When you reach the end of the passage, you find that it is actually an underground lake.
再向前移动一段距离后，有一岩浆湖出现在前方。但还没等你细看，一只炙火蝎已是出现在你的视线内。¤After moving forward for a distance, a lava lake appears ahead. However, before you could take a closer look, a scorching scorpion has already appeared in your view.
我会替你断后，防止意外发生。不过我相信以{$daihao}你的实力，应当不需要我出手了吧。¤I will protect you from any unforeseen events. But I believe with {$daihao}'s strength, you shouldn't need my help.
{$daihao}...作为如今风雨楼中威名最盛的天字杀手，我希望你可以与我一起完成这件悬赏。¤{$daihao}...As the most famous Heaven Rank Assassin in the Storm Manor, I hope you can join me in completing this bounty.
二百万灵石。¤Two million spirit stones.
按公孙季此前的说法，琚运琦与血剑宫有私下勾结。但他此时却邀请你一同暗杀血剑宫长老，令你颇为不解。¤According to Gongsun Ji's previous statement, Ju Yunqi had a secret connection with the Blood Sword Palace. However, he is now inviting you to assassinate the Blood Sword Palace elder, which confuses you.
不太一样。¤Not quite the same.
这次悬赏的目标是此前在白帝楼参与夺剑的一名血剑宫元婴期长老。血剑尊盛名在外，即便在天阶悬赏中也颇为棘手。¤The target of this bounty is an elder in the nascent soul stage from the Blood Sword Palace who previously participated in the sword-snatching competition held at the White Emperor Pavilion. The Blood Sword Sect is well-known, and even in the heavenly level bounty, they are considered a challenging target.
一起？风雨楼内的悬赏，似乎没有这样的先例吧？¤Together? There doesn't seem to be such a precedent for the bounty inside Storm Manor, right?
何况，告诉白帝楼，那我们风雨楼赚什么？¤Moreover, tell White Emperor Pavilion, what do we gain from Storm Manor?
是大长老此前提到的特殊悬赏么？¤Is this the special bounty that the grand elder mentioned before?
事关重大，我费了不少功夫才发现了那血剑宫长老的踪迹，此番务必一次成功，若是让他逃离了宁州，再想追上就麻烦了。¤It is of great importance, and I have put in a lot of effort to discover the whereabouts of the Blood Sword Palace Elder. It is crucial that we achieve success in one go. If he escapes from Ningzhou, it will be troublesome to catch up with him again.
你若独自出手便能解决此人，这二百万灵石便归你一人所有。¤If you can take care of this person on your own, then the two million spirit stones will belong solely to you.
琚运琦略显惊讶的皱了皱眉...¤Ju Yunqi slightly furrowed her brows, looking somewhat surprised...
{$daihao}，这次找你来是有一件悬赏想要交予你。这件悬赏难度不小，但报酬一定会让你满意。¤{$daihao}, I have come to you with a bounty that I would like to entrust to you. This bounty is not an easy task, but the compensation will surely satisfy you.
好，我先动身。你准备好后，尽快来九嶷山找我。¤Alright, I'm setting off first. Once you're prepared, come find me at Jiuyi Mountain as soon as possible.
此事原本应先告知公孙季知晓，但为了避免琚运琦生疑，你只得先与他一同出发，再见机行事...¤This matter was originally supposed to be informed to Gongsun Ji first, but in order to avoid making Ju Yunqi suspicious, you had no choice but to set out together with him and proceed cautiously.
越快越好，这血剑宫长老目前正藏匿于九嶷山一带。不如你我二人即刻动身，以免生变。¤The faster the better. The Blood Sword Palace Elder is currently hiding in the Jiuyi Mountain area. Let's leave now to prevent any unexpected situations.
你跟着玄女走进密室，琚运琦已经在这里等你了。¤You followed the mysterious girl into the secret chamber, and Ju Yunqi was already waiting for you here.
何时动手？¤When will you make your move?
追踪暗杀之术，非白帝楼所长。¤Tracking assassination techniques is not the responsibility of the White Emperor Pavilion's leader.
眼前是一处深坑，源源不断死气四溢开来。¤In front of me is a deep pit, constantly emitting a foul death energy.
哈哈哈哈，不错不错，这样为师也可以放心将师门传承交给你了。¤Hahaha, not bad, not bad. With this, I can trust you with the inheritance of the sect.
可惜可惜...你这孩子还是差一些火候。¤What a pity... you still lack some experience as a child in this matter.
道友可听说过灵眼？无尽之海上有时会遇到天然形成的灵气汇聚之地，在其中修练的速度是平时的几倍。嗨，这也都是听别人提起的，我是没有运气遇见这种好事...¤Fellow daoist, have you heard of the Spirit Eye? Sometimes on the endless sea, there are natural locations where spiritual energy converges, and the speed of cultivation there is several times faster than usual. Ah, but these are all things I've heard from others. I haven't had the luck to come across such a good opportunity myself��
咳咳...没想到这方壶山这等凶险，先撤吧。¤Cough cough... I didn't expect Fang Hu Mountain to be so dangerous, let's retreat for now.
他这样说着，便化作一道血色遁光，飞也似的逃开了。¤He said this, and then turned into a blood-colored escape light, flying away like a runaway.
至于这储物袋...应该是被害者的遗物。等回广陵城后，便将此物交还给他的家人吧...¤As for this storage pouch... it should be a belonging of the victim. Let's return this item to their family after we return to Guangling City...
这储物袋...应该是被害者的遗物。等回广陵城后，便将此物交还给他的家人吧...¤This storage pouch...should be the deceased's belonging. After returning to Guangling City, it should be returned to their family.
咳咳咳...我有伤在身，今日便放你一马。¤Ahem... I am injured, so I will let you go today.
虽然不太确定，但还是应该回白帝楼汇报一下。¤Although not entirely sure, it's still necessary to go back to the White Emperor Pavilion to report.
呼...好古怪的法门...不似寻常修士，倒是有点像魔门。¤Hu... what a strange method... it doesn't seem like the usual cultivator's technique, but it's a bit like demonic magic.
先回白帝楼汇报吧。¤First, let's report back to the White Emperor Pavilion.
听他们所说这豹麟兽已经落入他们之手。看来此行算是落空了。¤They said that the leopard beast has fallen into their hands. It seems that this trip was in vain.
没看出来，还是个高手。不过，我今天有急事，道友后会有期。¤I didn't realize it, you're quite skilled. However, I have urgent matters to attend to today. Fellow daoist, let's meet again sometime in the future.
说罢，他一掐法诀，激活阵法。空间一阵波动之后，人就消失不见了。¤After speaking, he pinched a spell and activated the array. After a fluctuation in space, the person disappeared.
此人也是果断，连同伴的尸身都不看一眼。¤This person is also decisive and doesn't even glance at the bodies of his companions.
果然，这玄古门不简单啊。¤Sure enough, this profound ancient sect is not easy.
天下奇门异术数不胜数也没什么好奇怪的，先收着吧。¤There are countless odd gates and techniques under heaven and earth, so there's nothing too strange about it. Let's just keep them for now.
唉，还是先回麟庙吧。¤Ah, let's go back to Lin Temple first.
没想到此地阵法除了敛息探查之效，竟还包有传送阵。¤Unexpectedly, this formation not only had the effect of restraining and exploring, but also contained a teleportation array.
这不是玄谷丹吗？老头，你说此人应该就是玄古门的人吧。¤Isn't this the Profound Valley Pill? Old man, you said this person should be a member of the Profound Ancient Sect, right?
不过，以你在丹道上的造诣确实有看不出来什么。¤However, your proficiency in pill dao really can't be underestimated.
此人身上只有一块碎裂的玉牌，一只黑色小瓶。玉牌虽已破碎，但依稀能看到上书“玄古”二字。¤This person only had a broken jade tablet and a small black bottle. Although the jade tablet was shattered, you could still vaguely see the words Xuan Gu written on it.
怎么这丹药有什么问题？¤What's wrong with this pill?
怪事，以我的炼丹造诣竟是连这丹药所用材料和炼制手法都分不出来。¤Strange, with my alchemy skills, I can't even distinguish the materials and refining techniques used for this pill.
打开小瓶，倒出一枚通体鲜红的丹药。¤Open the small bottle and pour out a bright red pill.
先看看此地还有什么线索吧。¤Let's first see if there are any clues here.
此地阵法已在激活后自毁，倒也没什么收获。¤The formation here self-destructed after activation, so there wasn't any gain.
即使不是，也八成和玄古门颇有瓜葛。¤Even if not directly related, there's likely an eight-out-of-ten chance of a connection to the Profound Ancient Sect.
不错，我现在的确奈何不了你。但别忘了，当年是薇儿救了你！若是没有我们血剑宫，哪有你凌轩的今日？¤Not bad, I truly can't do anything to you now. But don't forget, Wei'er saved you back then! If it weren't for our Blood Sword Palace, where would you be today, Ling Xuan?
轩儿...¤Xuan'er...
保重！¤Take care!
难道这是...天道树的力量？¤Could this be the power of the Heavenly Dao Tree?
吼！恶饕老贼，是时候报这十万年前的仇了！¤Roar! Vile gluttonous thief, it's time to avenge this grudge from ten thousand years ago!
像是有什么东西要从他的体内钻出来一般，他变异的身体突然扭曲起来，鼓起了大大小小的气泡。¤As if something was about to burst out of his body, his mutated form suddenly twisted and bubbled with large and small bubbles.
没有。¤No.
用你那柄剑...给我一个痛快吧。¤Use your sword to give me a good fight.
劫云渐渐散去，在那片天空之下，仿佛只有白帝一人。¤The calamity clouds gradually dissipated, and under that expanse of sky, it seemed as if only the White Emperor remained.
此时混元子、明山、白鹿似乎都已负伤，而恶饕单手接住了麒麟的火球，并借力快速向你飞来。¤At this moment, the Primordial Child, Ming Shan, and White Deer all seem to be injured, while the Chaos Gluttony single-handedly caught the Qilin's fireball and quickly flew towards you with borrowed force.
这剑中似留有一丝天道气息，在我渡劫失败之刻，雷劫中仙灵之气似乎恰巧引动了剑中的天道气息，我趁机运起了先前寻来的《造化逆天术》，重新凝聚了肉身。¤In this sword, there seems to be a hint of the Heavenly Dao Qi. When I failed to cross the tribulation, it just so happened that the spirit of the fairy in the thunder calamity triggered the Heavenly Dao Qi in the sword. I took the opportunity to use the Reverse Heaven Technique that I had previously obtained, and re-condensed my physical body. 《》
血亢...¤Blood frenzy...
红莲，魔剑已毁，留在这里已经没有意义了。白帝若是成功渡劫，可不会放过我们。¤The red lotus and demon sword have already been destroyed, staying here no longer holds any meaning. If the white emperor successfully undergoes tribulation, he won't spare us.
走吧¤Let's go.
御剑门因你而亡，还莫名背负了私通魔门的骂名。当年你设计陷害御剑门时，可曾想过今天？¤The Imperial Sword Sect was destroyed because of you and was inexplicably slandered for colluding with the Demonic Sect. When you plotted against the Imperial Sword Sect back then, did you ever think about today?
只见黑雾并未被白帝的护罩阻挡，径直钻入了白帝的丹田之处。¤I saw that the black mist was not blocked by the White Emperor's shield and went straight into his dantian.
红色的雷柱轰然落下，迎接它的是一柄巨大的青色灵剑。灵剑与雷柱接触的一瞬间，爆发出耀眼的闪光，翻涌的灵气四散开来，让人无法看清劫云中心到底发生了什么。¤A crimson thunder pillar descended with a massive cyan spiritual sword welcoming it. The moment the sword and thunder pillar made contact, a dazzling flash erupted and surging spiritual energy scattered, making it impossible to see what happened at the center of the calamitous clouds.
要打的话，本座也可以出手。这些古神教的杂碎，本座恨不得通通撕碎！¤If you want to fight, I can also make a move. These miscellaneous members of the ancient god sect, I wish I could tear them all apart!
玄骨的脸色顿时难看的起来，过了许久，才挤出一抹难看的笑容说道：¤Xuan Bone's face immediately became ugly. After a while, he forced out an ugly smile and said:
哈哈哈哈哈...¤Hahaha...
转头看去，只见一道血色剑气瞬间横跨天空，直直刺进剑阵中，接着一声轰然炸响，灵气狂暴地四散开来，让人看不清其中发生了什么。¤Looking over, one could only see a blood-red sword qi swiftly crossing the sky and piercing straight into the sword array. Then, a loud explosion resounded, and the spiritual energy scattered in a frenzy, making it impossible to discern what had occurred within.
{size=31}这天地劫可不好应对，凌老儿你可要撑住啊...{/size}¤{size=31}This heaven and earth tribulation is not easy to handle, Senior Ling, you must hold on...{/size}
{size=31}哈哈哈，我就知道凌老儿没问题的！{/size}¤{size=31}Hahaha, I knew Ling Lao-er would be fine!{/size}
{size=31}真是了不得，这一剑的威能即便是我...不，应该说在场的任何一人都绝无可能从这一剑下幸存{/size}¤{size=31}Truly incredible, the power of this sword is such that even I...no, it should be said that anyone present would be impossible to survive from this sword.{/size}
此事你大可放心，但是接下来你打算怎么办？¤You can rest assured about this matter, but what are you going to do next?
罢了...给我一个痛快吧。¤That's enough...give me a thrill.
兄长，今日我们只是为戮仙剑而来。如今魔剑已毁，再说这些又有何益。¤Big brother, today we only came for the Immortal Executing Sword. Now that the Demon Sword has been destroyed, there's no use talking about it.
玄骨冷哼一声，张开领域便往后逃窜。但即便如此，他一人又如何能从你们六个人的包围下逃脱呢？¤The bone spirit snorted coldly and activated their domain to escape backwards. But even so, how could they alone escape from the encirclement of you six?
此时天边一道剑气划过，劫云又一次散开。¤At this moment, a sword qi swept across the sky, causing the calamity clouds to disperse once again.
带着你的人离开这里，我可以放你们一条生路。¤Take your people and leave here, and I can let you live.
那你此刻？¤And what about you right now?
而在一旁，血亢手握三柄魔剑浮空而立。¤Meanwhile, Blood Insanity stood floating in mid-air, gripping three demon swords in his hand.
劫云渐渐散去，万道光柱穿破云层，洒在海面上。¤The calamity clouds gradually dissipated, and numerous beams of light penetrated the clouds and showered down upon the sea.
虽说如此，当你退至众人身后，却发现四人的配合越发捉襟见肘起来。¤Despite this, when you retreated behind the others, you found that the four of them were increasingly clumsy in their cooperation.
凝儿可不是一个人，你是想一个人对付我们那么多人么？¤Negi is not alone, do you want to deal with so many of us alone?
真是...后生可畏...¤Truly...the younger generation is frightening...
但是...¤However...
白帝就站在那里，静静地看着血剑宫众人化作红色的遁光逐渐远去。¤White Emperor stood there, quietly watching as the Blood Sword Palace's people turned into red escape light and gradually disappeared.
{size=31}哈哈哈，难得松松筋骨，再多打你一个又何妨？{/size}¤{size=31}Hahaha, it's rare to loosen up my muscles and bones. What's wrong with hitting you a few more times?{/size}
你手持诛仙剑，拦在追来的魔门众化神身前。¤You wield the immortal sword and stand in front of the approaching magic sect's deity transformations.
白帝并未作答，又回头看向你。¤The White Emperor did not answer, but turned to look at you.
白帝猛然喷出一口鲜血。¤The White Emperor suddenly spat out a mouthful of blood.
{$TmpTalkString}觉得怎么样？¤What do you think about {$TmpTalkString}?
在光柱的正中心，能够清晰的看到一个身影正缓缓向上飞去。但此时若有人用神识探查，却又绝无可能感应到任何东西。¤In the center of the beam of light, a figure could be seen slowly flying upwards. However, if someone were to probe with their soul sense, it would be impossible to sense anything at all.
嘁...¤Tsk...
凌轩，你一点都没变，还是和当年一样自以为是的口吻。¤Ling Xuan, you haven't changed at all, still with the same arrogant tone as before.
一道震耳欲聋的雷鸣声打破了你们的对峙，一块覆盖了整片海域的暗红色雷劫终于成型，无数鲜红色的电弧在劫云中若隐若现。¤A deafening thunderclap shattered the standoff between you, and at last, the dark red thunder kalpa took shape, covering the entire sea area. Countless bright red arcs of electricity flickered faintly amidst the thunderclouds.
血亢剑仙，按照约定，那柄绝仙剑该给我们天魔道，你不会不认账吧？¤High Blood Sword Immortal, according to our agreement, that Immortal Severing Sword should belong to our Heavenly Demon Cult. You wouldn't go back on your word, right?
吼，受死吧！¤Roar, perish!
言罢，三人合力攻向恶饕，但兴许是三人的配合并不默契，又或是魔神蛊确实重创了白帝，在三人的攻伐之下，恶饕老祖并未落于下风。¤After speaking, the three of them joined forces to attack Patriarch Gluttonous, but perhaps their cooperation was not tacit, or the Devil God Gu really did severely injure White Emperor. Under the attacks of the three, Patriarch Gluttonous did not fall behind.
你闻言看去，只见白帝正闭目盘坐在半空之中，似是在调理自身。¤Upon hearing this, you looked over and saw the White Emperor sitting cross-legged in midair with his eyes closed, seemingly healing himself.
一时间，剑芒大盛，恶饕老祖变异的躯体以肉眼可见的速度慢慢缩回了正常的样子。¤For a moment, the sword aura surged, and the mutated body of Patriarch Gluttonous slowly receded to its normal state at a visible speed.
只见黑雾并未被白帝的护罩阻挡，径直钻入了白帝的丹田之处。与此同时，在劫雷的打击下，灵气护罩明灭了数次但并未破开。¤I see that the black mist was not hindered by the Shield of the White Emperor and went straight into the dantian of the White Emperor. At the same time, under the bombardment of the thunder in the tribulation, the spiritual energy shield flickered several times but did not break.
另外...今日我未能帮师傅重塑肉身...以后的事，唯有拜托你了。¤Furthermore... I was unable to help master rebuild his body today... I can only ask for your help in the future.
以你的修为，本不必走这些歪门邪道，所以现在也只不过是自食其果罢了。¤With your cultivation, you didn't have to resort to these crooked paths and unorthodox methods. So now, you're simply facing the consequences of your actions.
你以为你能骗得过我么？¤Do you think you can deceive me?
今日之事，多谢诸位道友鼎力相助。此番古神教元气大伤，魔剑也悉数被毁，想必短时间内魔门也不会再犯宁州。¤Fellow daoists, I would like to thank you for your help today. The Ancient God Sect has suffered great losses and all of the demon swords have been destroyed. I believe that the Demon Sect will not dare to attack Ningzhou again for a short period of time.
“轰隆”¤Boom
够了。¤Enough.
还真是有一手呢。¤You really have a skill, don't you?
是最后一道天劫了¤It's the last heavenly tribulation.
重伤的恶饕老祖看了看众人，似乎想说些什么，却突然剧烈的咳嗽起来。¤The heavily injured Patriarch Gluttonous glanced at the crowd, seemingly wanting to say something, but suddenly erupted into violent coughing.
恶饕老祖似乎想说些什么，却突然剧烈的咳嗽起来。¤The Patriarch Gluttonous seemed to want to say something, but suddenly began to cough violently.
似乎是看出了你的颓势，白鹿一个闪身到了你的身前，又挡下了恶饕的一击。¤It seems that he has seen your decline, and Bai Lu swiftly moved in front of you, blocking the attack of the evil glutton.
师兄你……¤Senior brother, you...
伴随着一声叹息，一道血色剑气瞬间横跨天空，直直刺进剑阵中，接着一声轰然炸响，灵气狂暴地四散开来，让人看不清其中发生了什么。¤Accompanied by a sigh, a blood-red sword qi instantaneously crossed the sky, piercing straight into the sword array. Then, with a loud explosion, spiritual energy wildly scattered, making it impossible to see what had happened.
恶饕给我种下的魔神蛊带来的伤势比我想象中的还要重。¤The injuries caused by the devil god Gu implanted in me by the evil glutton are even more severe than I imagined.
何况你们这些古神教的蛆虫留在世上也是祸害。不如，今日本宫先废了你的一身修为，再放你走如何？¤Moreover, you, maggots of the Ancient God Sect, are nothing but trouble in this world. How about this? The palace will first remove your cultivation and then let you go.
白帝的声音在每个人的耳边淡淡响起，带着不容质疑的威严。¤The White Emperor's voice faintly echoed in everyone's ears, bearing an unquestionable majesty.
这些年来我也收集到了一些天才地宝，像这木灵三针花，地心淬灵乳还有堕山大圣的妖丹都是极为稀有的六品材料，想必诸位是识货的吧？¤In recent years, I have also collected some treasures of heaven and earth, such as the Seed of the Eternal World Tree, the Sap of the World Heart, and the Demon Core of the Fallen Mountain Great Sage. These are extremely rare sixth grade materials. I'm sure everyone here knows their value, right?
说罢，他便将一柄魔剑抛向红莲。¤After speaking, he threw a demon sword towards the Red Lotus.
师兄放心。¤Senior brother, rest assured.
星宫主可不是一个人，你是想一个人对付我们那么多人么？¤The Lord of the Star Palace is not just one person. Do you really think you can handle all of us alone?
白帝并未多言，取走你手中的诛仙剑后又向恶饕攻去。¤The White Emperor remained silent, took the Immortal Sword from your hand, and charged towards the Evil Glutton.
虽然{$TmpTalkString}同意放你走了，不过我星宫的仇可不能不报。¤Although {$TmpTalkString} agreed to let you go, I cannot ignore the grudge of the Star Palace.
星宫主，你可不要欺人太甚了。¤Star Palace Master, don't you dare bully others too much.
诛仙剑阵！起！¤Immortal slaying sword array! Rise!
我后半生所做的一切，都是为了偿还当年在血剑宫犯下的罪孽。¤Everything I have done in the latter half of my life has been to atone for the sins I committed in Blood Sword Palace back then.
恶饕旧伤未愈，新伤又起，扭曲庞大且恐怖的肉体在巨大的剑影之下也显得脆弱不堪。¤The old wounds of the evil glutton had not yet healed, and new wounds appeared, causing their twisted, grotesque body to seem fragile and vulnerable under the looming shadow of a massive sword.
待到灵气平息下来，你再凝神看去，只看到剑阵已破，血亢手握三柄魔剑浮空而立。¤After the spiritual energy had calmed, you focused your sense and looked, only to see the sword array had been broken. Bloodcraze stood floating with three demon swords in his hand.
雷光之中，白帝又举起了手中之剑，凝聚出一道浩大的剑形虚影，劈向恶饕。¤Within the lightning flashes, the White Emperor once again raised the sword in their hand and condensed a massive phantom sword shape, cutting towards the gluttonous beast.
希望先前的伤势不会对师兄造成影响...¤I hope that the previous injuries won't have any impact on senior brother...
对付你，我们还用不着两败俱伤¤We don't need to both suffer to deal with you.
白帝楼今后的事宜阿欣应该能够打理，不过还是需要{shidi}多帮忙照料一番。¤{shidi}, in the future, Ah Xin should be able to take care of the affairs of the White Emperor Pavilion, but still needs your help to take care of it.
这...现在这个情况，我也没有有十足的把握，还是暂且相信白帝...¤I do not have complete confidence in the current situation, but for now let us trust the White Emperor...
待到灵气平息下来，你再凝神看去，只见到恶饕此时已恢复了正常体型，跪倒在一处岛屿碎片之上，白帝手握诛仙剑，而诛仙剑的另一头，就在恶饕天灵之内。¤After the spiritual energy had calmed down, you can focus your senses again and see that the demon had returned to its normal size, kneeling on a fragment of an island. The White Emperor was holding the Immortal Sword, with its other end embedded inside the demon's Sky Spirit.
你也不由得长松一口气。¤You can't help but breathe a sigh of relief.
这一剑，为了御剑门！¤This sword is for the Imperial Sword Sect!
此言一出，玄骨的脸色立刻难看了起来。¤Upon hearing these words, Xuan Gu's face immediately turned ugly.
我这副躯体...终究还是没有办法承受神兽的血脉...¤My body...in the end, still cannot bear the bloodline of the divine beast...
只见恶饕匆忙间祭起了手中的三柄魔剑，隐隐之中形成了一个残缺的阵法，霎时间凶煞之气不断地从这剑阵中弥漫而出。¤I saw the gluttony hurriedly summon three demon swords in his hand, forming a partially incomplete sword array. In an instant, a fierce and menacing aura continuously spread out from this sword array.
我们走！¤Let's go!
你才将目光移开，身边的战局似乎又起了变化。¤You just shifted your gaze away, and the battle situation around you seemed to have changed again.
怎么？你也怕他扛不住这雷劫？¤What? Are you also afraid that he can't withstand the thunder kalpa?
不知是因为你刚刚斩杀恶饕的那一剑过于骇人，还是震慑于诛仙剑的威能。一时间，竟无一人敢对你动手。¤Perhaps it was because of the terrifying strike you just used to slay the ferocious beast or maybe it was the overwhelming power of the Immortal Sword. At that moment, no one dared to make a move against you.
想象中的攻击并没有落在你是身上，你只看到恶饕停在了你的身前，一个明晃晃的剑尖从他的胸口透出。¤The imagined strike didn't hit you, but you see the gluttonous monster standing in front of you with a shiny sword tip piercing through his chest.
站住，谁允许你走了？¤Stop, who allowed you to leave?
凌老儿，这是怎么回事？¤Ling lao er, what's going on?
若是你真的问心无愧的话，那心魔劫...¤If you truly have a clear conscience, then the tribulation of the heart demon...
天空的劫云再度凝聚，眼看第九道雷劫也迫在眉睫。¤The calamitous clouds in the sky gather once again, and the ninth thunder kalpa is looming.
不如这样，你们开个价，只要我能拿得出手的，我都可以交给你们，如何？¤How about this, you name a price, and as long as I have something that's of value, I'll give it to you. How does that sound?
星宫主言笑了，这里可是无尽之海。若没有金丹期以上的修为，根本不可能活着离开这里。¤This is the Endless Sea. Without cultivation of Golden Core stage or above, it is impossible to leave alive.
{shidi}，我的时间不多了。¤{shidi}, I don't have much time left.
确实如火麒麟所说，起初白帝尚可与恶饕对攻，但随着半空中劫云慢慢聚集，心有顾虑的白帝也渐渐地有些难以招架。¤As Fire Qilin said, it was indeed true that at first the White Emperor was able to stand against the Evil Glutton in battle. However, as the robbery clouds gradually gathered in the sky, the White Emperor, who had started to feel apprehensive, found it increasingly difficult to resist.
哈...哈...哈...星宫主不说我倒是忘了。¤Ha...ha...ha...I almost forgot without Star Palace Master mentioning it.
血薇...你...哎...¤Blood Wei... you... sigh...
你调动全身的灵气，催动诛仙剑刺入了恶饕老祖的身体。¤You mobilize the spiritual energy of your entire body, urging the Immortal Sword to pierce into Patriarch Gluttonous' body.
出手之人竟是血薇。¤The one who took action turned out to be Xue Wei.
与此前不同，在吞噬了恶饕老祖与三柄魔剑之后，你手中的诛仙剑却变得越来越轻，直到你再也感受不到它的任何重量。自图南海归来后，铁剑带给你的疑惑终于被解开。¤Unlike before, after devouring Patriarch Gluttonous and the three demon swords, your Immortal Sword in hand became lighter and lighter until you couldn't feel any weight at all. Since returning from the South Tu Sea, the confusion brought to you by the iron sword has finally been solved.
远处剧烈的神识波动打断了众人的沉默，却是星凝那边的战斗终于迎来了尾声。¤The intense fluctuations of soul sense from a distance broke the silence among everyone. Xing Ning's combat had finally come to an end.
这已是第八道雷劫。看来没有我的拖累，渡过雷劫对轩儿来说并不是什么难事。¤This is already the eighth thunder kalpa. It seems that without my interference, passing through the thunder kalpa is not difficult for Xuan er.
你这是自寻死...啊！¤You are courting death...ah!
放心，凌轩的实力我比你更清楚。¤Rest assured, I am more aware of Ling Xuan's strength than you are.
原来如此...看来你们早就调查清楚了。难怪对魔神蛊有所防备。¤Oh, so that's how it is... It seems like you've already investigated thoroughly. No wonder you were prepared for the devil god Gu.
众人目送白帝的身影逐渐远去，直到劫云散尽，光柱消失，便再也看不见了。¤As the crowd watched the figure of the White Emperor gradually fade away, it wasn't until the calamity clouds dispersed and the pillar of light disappeared that he couldn't be seen anymore.
为什么...魔神蛊居然？¤Why... did the devil god gu actually...?
这已是第八道雷劫的劫云了。看来没有我的拖累，这雷劫对轩儿来说并不是什么难事。¤This is already the eighth thunder kalpa's disaster cloud. It seems that without my hindrance, this thunder kalpa is not too difficult for Xuan'er.
看来刚刚的伤势对师兄没造成什么影响...¤It seems like the injuries just now didn't cause any impact on senior brother...
我生机已绝，即使重新凝聚肉身，此时也如同无根之水，恐怕时日无多。¤My vitality has already ceased, even if I were to reform my physical body, at this moment it would be like water without roots, I'm afraid my time is limited.
便依星宫主的吧。¤Just follow the Star Palace Master's lead.
那...到底该拿你怎么办呢？不如就由{$TmpTalkString}说了算吧。¤So... what should we do with you? Let's leave it up to {$TmpTalkString} to decide.
恶饕似乎并没有防备，反倒手臂险些被这道剑影撕裂。¤The gluttonous beast seemed unprepared, and his arm was almost ripped apart by the sword shadow.
同样的手段，用多了可就不管用了。¤The same means, if used too much, will become ineffective.
此言一出，玄骨的脸色立刻轻松了起来。¤With this statement, Xuan Gu's expression immediately relaxed.
在第九道雷劫中，我虽仍能聚气以秘术攻击雷柱，却在后续的防御中败下阵来。¤In the ninth Thunder Kalpa, although I was still able to gather qi and strike the Thunder Pillar with secret arts, I failed in the subsequent defence.
小友当心！¤Young friend, be careful!
恶饕，十万年前你偷袭本座的时候，可曾想到有今天？¤Evil glutton, did you ever think about today when you sneakily attacked me ten thousand years ago?
你...你竟敢在渡劫时出手？¤You... how dare you make a move during the tribulation?
你胸口那颗珠子，怎么不舍得拿出来了？若非凭这这颗宝珠，以你化神初期的修为，能够在本宫手中撑到现在？¤Why aren't you willing to take out the bead on your chest? Without that treasure, with only your early void transformation cultivation, how could you have lasted this long in my hands?
你还是放不下他。¤You still can't let him go.
看着血剑宫众人化作红色的遁光逐渐远去，白帝似乎想说什么，却欲言又止。¤As he watched the group from Blood Sword Palace turn into red light and fly away, White Emperor seemed to want to say something, but hesitated.
突然一柄血红色的长剑在白帝攻势的间隙中斜杀出来，刺向恶饕的肋下，这一击显然出乎了所有人的意料，恶饕一惊之下攻势暂缓。¤Suddenly, a blood-red long sword slashed diagonally through the gap in White Emperor's attack, stabbing towards E'tao's ribs. This attack clearly caught everyone off guard, causing E'tao's offensive to slow down in surprise.
如今的这柄诛仙剑不仅已经恢复了通天灵宝的威能，甚至还远超当年啊。¤Nowadays, this Immortal Sword not only recovered the power of the Sky Spirit, but even surpassed it compared to in the past.
红莲，绝仙剑已经到手，留在这里已经没有意义了。白帝若是成功渡劫，可不会放过我们。¤The Red Lotus and Immortal Severing Sword are already in our possession. There is no point in staying here any longer. If the White Emperor successfully crosses his tribulation, he will not spare us.
兄长，今日戮仙剑已到我们手中，又何必耗费口舌与他相争。¤Brother, the Immortal Executing Sword is already in our hands today. Why waste words arguing with him?
事已至此，莫非你还要逼的我全力出手，与你拼个两败俱伤么！¤Things have come to this point, could it be that you still want to force me to go all out and fight with you until both of us are injured?
就此别过，来日若有缘，我等自会在上界重逢。¤Farewell for now. If fate allows, we shall meet again in the higher realm.
这些古神教的人，留在世上也是祸害。¤These members of the Ancient God Sect are nothing but calamities if left in the world.
这就要说此剑了。¤This is about to talk about the sword.
残存的劫云闪动，一道闪电向白帝劈下。¤The remaining calamity clouds flickered, and a bolt of lightning struck down towards the White Emperor.
诛仙剑，有吞噬之能，为四剑之首。没有想到，它连另外几柄魔剑的能量都可以吞噬。¤The Immortal Sword, the first of the four swords, has the ability of devouring. It's surprising that it can even devour the energy of other demon swords.
不好，那三柄魔剑也要被...¤Uh oh, those three demon swords are also going to be...
是啊，看来诛仙剑当年在图南海吞噬了一部分天道树的本源能量。¤Yes, it seems that the Immortal Sword had devoured a portion of the source energy of the Heavenly Tree in the South Tu Sea.
成功了？¤Did it work?
恶饕悍然出手，欺身冲向白帝，同时一道黑雾也从他天灵飞出，飞向白帝。¤The wicked glutton brazenly made a move, rushing towards the White Emperor. At the same time, a black mist flew out from his Sky Spirit and headed towards the White Emperor.
只见恶饕祭起了手中的三柄魔剑，隐隐之中形成了一个残缺阵法，霎时间凶煞之气不断地从这剑阵中弥漫而出。¤I saw the gluttonous demon brandish three demon swords in his hand, and a faintly incomplete array formed. The aura of cruelty and wickedness continuously emanated from this sword array.
今日之事，多谢诸位道友鼎力相助。此番古神教元气大伤，血剑宫和天魔道获得魔剑之后也需要一些时日炼化，他们本就不同心，此后更是觊觎对方手中的魔剑，想必短时间内也不会合力再犯宁州。¤Thank you fellow daoists for your help today. The Ancient God Sect suffered a great loss, and both the Blood Sword Palace and Heavenly Demon Cult will need some time to refine the demon sword they obtained. They were already at odds with each other, and now they covet the other's demon sword even more. It is unlikely they will team up to attack Ningzhou again in the near future.
本宫看起来这么容易打发么？¤Does this palace look so easy to deal with?
如此正好...¤In this way, it's just right...
白帝见状攻势一停，但不曾想到恶饕趁此间隙放出了一道黑雾，飞向白帝。¤The White Emperor halted his attack upon seeing the situation, but did not expect the E'tao to release a black mist during this opportunity, flying towards the White Emperor.
说罢，恶饕便借剑阵之威向白帝攻去，白帝也压下伤势反攻。一时之间，凶煞之气与剑气不断碰撞、爆发、泯灭。¤After speaking, E Tao borrowed the power of the sword array to attack the White Emperor who then pushed back despite his injuries. For a moment, the fierce and evil aura collided, erupted, and faded with the sword qi.
另外我这位师弟也请混元子老兄之后照看一二了。¤Furthermore, I also ask that Senior Primordial Child take care of my junior in the future.
{$TmpTalkString}还真是有一手呢。¤{$TmpTalkString}, you really have some skills.
魏无极又祭起诛仙剑，想要挡在你的面前。但你却紧紧握住剑柄，将之收向身后，同时运起灵气，准备自己挡下恶饕这来势汹汹的一击。¤Wei Wuji raised the Immortal Sword, trying to block your path. But you tightly gripped the handle, pulling it towards your back, while unleashing your spirit energy, preparing to withstand the fierce attack of the monstrous beast.
...不能¤To be unable to do something
红莲尊者，按之前的约定，绝仙剑归你了。¤Venerable Red Lotus, according to our previous agreement, the Immortal Severing Sword belongs to you.
混元子，马上要对付最后一道雷劫了，这样下去可不妙。但本座却也不敢随意插手，怕反倒干扰到他。你和白帝多年至交，可有什么办法？¤The Primordial Child is about to face the final Thunder Kalpa, which is not good if it continues like this. However, I dare not intervene randomly for fear of disturbing him instead. You have been close friends with the White Emperor for many years, do you have any ideas?
既然如此，那你也一起死吧！¤Since that's the case, then you can die too!
随着魏无极的言语，白帝并没有如同传说中飞升而去，反而慢慢落地。¤As Wei Wuji spoke, the White Emperor did not ascend as the legends said, instead he slowly descended to the ground.
吼...那三柄魔剑被血剑宫的人抢去了。¤Roar... Those three demon swords were snatched by the people from Blood Sword Palace.
你要怎么样才肯放过我？不如开出个价来。若是逼的我毁去储物袋，你们什么也别想得到！¤How can I get you to spare me? Why don't you make an offer? If you force me to destroy the storage pouch, you'll get nothing!
白帝拿出了诛仙剑。¤The White Emperor pulled out the Immortal Sword.
其实当年你就没有骗过我¤Actually, you never lied to me back then.
算了，今天已经打的够多了，让他走吧。¤Never mind, I've already fought enough today, let him go.
这...还有这些六品丹药，六品灵舟，六品阵旗，...只要我诸位肯放过我，我都可以双手奉上！¤These... and also these sixth grade pills, sixth grade spirit boats, and sixth grade formation flags... as long as you are willing to spare me, I can offer them all to you with both hands!
即使一旁有四个化神相助，你依然在恶饕的攻势下节节败退。¤Even with four deity transformations by your side, you still retreat under the onslaught of the gluttonous attack.
若谁还想要夺剑的，大可来试上一试。¤If anyone still wants to try and take the sword, feel free to give it a try.
不妙！凌老儿我来助你！¤Bad! Ling elder, I'll help you!
今日我未能帮师傅重塑肉身...以后的事，唯有拜托你了。¤Today, I was unable to help my master reshape their physical body... From now on, I can only entrust this to you.
但是...渡劫失败必然灰飞烟灭，你又如何能够站在此处？¤However, if you fail the tribulation, you will inevitably disappear like flying smoke. How can you stand here?
此时你知道了又能如何？¤What can you do now that you know?
我知道¤I know.
哼，总算没有白费本座的功夫。¤Hmph, it's not for nothing that this seat has put in the effort.
周天灵气开始像疯了般灌入诛仙剑中，这股力量甚至逼得周围得其它化神强者也不得不退避三舍。¤The sky spirit began to pour into the immortal sword like crazy, and this power even forced other deity transformation powerhouses nearby to retreat.
接着一个巨大的火球飞出，不再抵抗的恶饕老祖转眼之间便灰飞烟灭...¤Following that, a massive fireball flew out and the Patriarch Gluttonous, who couldn't resist any longer, disappeared in a puff of smoke...
这枚定神珠可是用六品材料精心炼制而成的上品通天灵宝，以星宫主的眼光，应该知道它的价值。¤This fixation pearl is a top-notch spiritual treasure refined with sixth-grade materials, and with the discerning eye of the Star Palace's master, they should know its value.
没想到...小小一个御剑门...留下了这么多的后患...¤I didn't expect... a small Imperial Sword Sect... to leave behind so many troubles...
这定神珠对星宫来说也算有些用处，我便带回去了。剩下的东西，都归你。¤This fixation pearl is somewhat useful for Star Palace, so I brought it back. The rest of the things belong to you.
此时恶饕被白帝刺出的伤口逐渐愈合，留下了一道疤痕，即使在他扭曲的肉体上，这道疤痕也显得格外狰狞。¤At this moment, the wound caused by the White Emperor's stabbing on the Evil Gluttonous Creature gradually healed, leaving behind a scar. Even on his twisted body, this scar looked particularly hideous.
就在此刻，你隐约听到远处传来“嗖”的一声。¤At this moment, you vaguely hear a swoosh sound coming from afar.
玄骨这老贼终于被我...欸，武陵城这老头是什么情况？¤Finally caught that old thief Xuan Gu, eh? Hey, what's the deal with this old man in Wuling City?
是魔神蛊，原来是之前偷袭时...¤It is the Devil God Gu, and it turns out that it was used during the sneak strike earlier...
千余年来，古神教利用魔神蛊控制他人，又何止害了御剑门一家？今日，你便要玄骨为此付出代价！¤For over a thousand years, the Ancient God Sect has used Devil God Gu to control others, causing harm not only to the Imperial Sword Sect but also countless others. Today, Xuan Gu, you will pay the price for your actions!
小友你先退下，这里有我们便足够了。¤Dear young friend, please step back. We have enough people here.
真没想到...小小一个御剑门...留下了这么多的后患...¤I never thought...such a small Imperial Sword Sect...would leave behind so many troubles...
到底成功了么？这是所有人的疑问。¤Did we succeed in the end? This is everyone's question.
此时一道红色遁光飞来，竟是血薇去而又返，她静静地站在远处，目光直视白帝。¤At this moment, a red stream of light flew over, and to everyone's surprise, it was Blood Wei returning. She stood quietly in the distance, staring straight at the White Emperor.
噢...还有这三阳锻魄丹。这可是能够提升神识的六品丹药，星宫主应该刚好用得上吧？¤Oh...and there's also the Divine Soul Pill. This is a sixth-grade pill that can enhance one's soul sense. The Star Palace Master should find it useful, right?
白帝似乎把事情都交代完了，一时沉默了下来。¤The White Emperor seemed to have finished explaining everything and fell silent for a moment.
适才吓退血亢已是不易，此番事了，古神教元气大伤，血剑宫和天魔道获得魔剑之后也需要一些时日炼化，而在他们眼中，诛仙剑已由我飞升带往上界，想必短时间内也不会合力再犯宁州。¤It was not easy to scare away Xue Kang just now. After this incident, the Ancient God Sect suffered heavy damage. It will take some time for both Blood Sword Palace and Heavenly Demon Cult to refine the Demon Sword they gained. In their eyes, the Immortal Sword has been taken to the upper realm by me when I ascended, so they won't team up again to invade Ningzhou in the short term.
数道雷劫依次劈下，第八道雷劫带来的压迫力远超之前。白帝稳坐其中，身上的护罩不断明灭，却也始终没有破开。¤Several thunder kalpas struck one after another, with the pressure brought by the eighth thunder kalpa far exceeding the previous ones. The White Emperor remained seated in the middle of it all, with the shield on his body flickering constantly, yet it never showed any signs of breaking.
恶饕借剑阵之威又向白帝攻去，一时之间，凶煞之气与剑气不断碰撞、爆发、泯灭。¤The evil devourer borrowed the power of the Sword Array and once again attacked the White Emperor. For a moment, the ferocious aura and sword qi collided, erupting and annihilating each other.
没想到还是让你成功了¤I didn't expect you to succeed after all.
在众人的注视下，玄骨面色铁青的将储物袋掷于你。等你清点完毕示意无误后，才同意放他离开。¤Under the watchful gaze of the crowd, Xuan Gu forcefully threw a storage pouch towards you with an ashen expression. After you finished counting and confirmed there were no mistakes, you agreed to let him go.
此事自有天道来判。¤This matter will be judged by the heavens.
兄长，今日我们只是为戮仙剑而来。如今戮仙剑已在手中，再说这些又有何益。¤Brother, today we have only come for the Immortal Executing Sword. Now that we have it in our hands, there is no use in saying more.
他手中的陷仙剑，戮仙剑与绝仙剑飞至半空，爆发出耀眼的红光，似乎想要与诛仙剑抗衡，但这光芒很快便黯淡了下去。¤The Sword of Immortality, the Immortal Executing Sword, and the Immortal Severing Sword flew into the air from his hand, emitting a dazzling red light. It seemed like they were trying to compete with the Immortal Sword, but their radiance quickly faded.
轩儿，你...¤Xuan'er, you...
白帝并未说话，只是摄走了你手中的诛仙剑，并静静地看着恶饕。¤The White Emperor remained silent and simply took the Immortal Sword from your hand, quietly watching the gluttonous beast.
众人就这么看着一白一红两道身影慢慢远去，渐渐消失在远处的风暴中。¤Everyone watched as a white and red figure slowly moved away, gradually disappearing into the distant storm.
看起来似乎一切都要结束了，但你们的身后又传来了星凝的声音。¤It seems like everything is about to come to an end, but then you hear Xing Ning's voice from behind you.
便依凝儿的吧。¤Just follow Yining's lead.
随手除去几个暗哨后，你带着炎萧来到了天魔眼核心的中心地带。¤After getting rid of a few hidden guards, you brought Yan Xiao to the center of the Heavenly Demon Eye's core.
未等你和炎萧细看，这魔修的身躯已是消失无踪，只留一堆原本裹着肉体的破布散落在地。¤Before you and Yan Xiao could examine further, the body of this demonic cultivator had already disappeared without a trace, leaving only tattered clothes that were once wrapped around his flesh scattered on the ground.
其中站得最近的那个正高举双手，有魔气源源不断涌出的脸上满是狂喜。这种表情别说出现在苦心悟道的修士脸上，连在为七情六欲所困的凡人脸上也是难得一见。¤The one standing closest had both hands held high, their face overflowing with a continuous flow of magic qi, and was full of wild joy. This expression was not only rare to appear on the face of a cultivator who had painstakingly attained enlightenment, but also rare to see on the faces of mortals trapped by the seven emotions and six desires.
你也不在意这些蝼蚁的死活，眼中只有勉强恢复了些实力的天魔。后者也像是感知到了危险，迅速地从魔气团的形状转化为战斗状态。¤You did not care about the life or death of these ants, your eyes only focused on the Heavenly Demon who had barely recovered some of his strength. The latter seemed to sense the danger and quickly transformed from a cluster of magic qi into a combat-ready state.
嗯，他们原本的计划应该是用我手上的天魔晶为天魔恢复实力，却在{FirstName}{$NickName}的插手下未能如愿。¤Well, their original plan was to use the Heavenly Demon crystal in my hands to recover the strength of the Heavenly Demon, but they were unable to do so due to the intervention of {FirstName}{$NickName}.
难怪天魔道会追杀炎萧{$ChenHu}到海上。¤No wonder the disciples of the Heavenly Demon Cult are chasing Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} to the sea.
造成这一状况的，正是你们追寻的目标——天魔道修士！¤The one responsible for causing this situation are the cultivators of the Heavenly Demon Cult!
只见有金、蓝、绿、红、黄五色光柱从远处投射而来，与中心上方汇聚成一束温暖的光柱直落而下。顺着光柱往下看则是满地晦涩的阵法纹路，由落点下方呈放射状发散而出，¤I saw five colored light pillars, gold, blue, green, red, and yellow, projecting from the distance and converging into a warm beam of light above the center that plummeted down. Looking down the beam of light, the ground was filled with obscure array patterns radiating from the landing point below.
而后便是有另一个魔修走上前去，依样献祭。¤Afterwards, another demon cultivator stepped forward, performing the same sacrifice.
除去几个暗哨后，你和炎萧有惊无险地闯到了天魔眼核心的中心地带。¤After getting rid of a few hidden sentinels, you and Yan Xiao successfully made it to the center of the Heavenly Demon Eye's core without any danger.
你一挥衣袍，身形也出现在天魔近旁，抬手便是神通与法宝齐飞。¤You flick your robe, and your figure appears next to the heavenly demon. With a wave of your hand, your divine skill and artifact fly out together.
小心些。¤Be careful.
三个天魔道修士正将一团不断壮大的魔气围住。¤Three heavenly demon cult disciples were surrounding a constantly expanding ball of magic qi.
你应了一声，便驱使着法宝向天魔攻去。¤You responded with a sound, then commanded your artifact to attack the heavenly demon.
这些魔修似乎是隔绝了天魔眼核心阵法，而后用献祭的方式为天魔恢复状态。¤These demon cultivators seemed to have isolated the demon eye core formation and then used sacrifice as a way to recover the heavenly demon's status.
好，那由我来对付天魔，{FirstName}{$NickName}设法拖住两个元婴修士，可好？¤Okay, let me deal with the heavenly demon, can {FirstName}{$NickName} manage to hold off two nascent soul cultivators?
眼下对方只有未完全恢复的天魔和两个元婴魔修，不说击败他们，但拖到葛道友和宁州正派的支援到来，还是能做到的。¤At present, the only opponents were the Heavenly Demon, who had not fully recovered, and two Nascent Soul Demon Cultivators. While defeating them might not be possible, it was still possible to drag the fight until the arrival of Fellow Daoist Ge and the support from the righteous cultivators in Ningzhou.
这次也会是如此。¤This time will also be like this.
除去几个暗哨后，你和炎萧轻易地摸到了天魔眼核心的中心地带。¤After eliminating several undercover guards, you and Yan Xiao easily arrived at the central area of the Heavenly Demon’s Eye Core.
你应了一声，便驱使着法宝攻上前去。¤You responded with a yes, then urged your artifact to attack.
嗯，这一次也要阻止他们。¤Mmm, this time we must also stop them.
也好，我尽快解决魔修之后便会来支援你，多加小心。¤Okay, I'll come support you as soon as I finish dealing with the demonic cultivators. Be careful.
就让我来看看前人只能封印的天魔究竟有何能耐。¤Let me see what capabilities the heavenly demon, which previous generations could only seal, truly possess.
侥幸而已。¤Just a stroke of luck.
看这情况，若是再拖延些时间，让天魔的实力完全恢复，对宁州必是一场浩劫。眼下有葛前辈通知其他门派，不如我们先行阻挠一番，等候支援。¤Looking at the situation, if we delay any further and let the Heavenly Demon fully recover its strength, it will be a disaster for Ningzhou. As Senior Ge has already notified the other sects, why don't we take action first and wait for reinforcements?
剩余的元婴魔修反应倒是挺快，你刚出手已是退至一旁，有个遁速稍慢的，被你神通堪堪擦中，虽还能起身战斗但也是身受重伤，¤The remaining nascent soul demon cultivators had surprisingly quick reactions. As soon as you made a move, they had already retreated to the side. One with slower speed was barely grazed by your divine skill and while they could still get up and fight, they were seriously wounded.
前辈，有何事吩咐？¤Senior, what can I do for you?
小娃娃，凭你这点道行，恐怕还不是贫道的对手。¤Little one, with your current cultivation level, I'm afraid you're not a match for me.
哼...\n¤Hmpf...\n
若不是那古神教咄咄逼人，我玄古门在衡州也算是一方霸主。¤If it weren't for the intimidating ancient god sect, our profound ancient sect would be considered a dominant force in Hengzhou.
对面惊讶的一挑眉头。¤The person across raised an eyebrow in surprise.
“咔嚓，咔嚓”¤Crack, crack
不过精炼麒麟血可是一件水磨工夫，我此次闭关至少10年。到时候，你来巫山古月寨找我。¤However, refining the Qilin blood is a time-consuming task. I will need to cultivate for at least 10 years this time. When the time comes, come find me at Gu Yue village in Mt. Wu.
道友若是有四品的金丹期鲲族的心脏就请帮我带来吧。¤Fellow daoist, if you have a fourth-grade golden core heart from a Kun race during the Golden Core period, please help me bring it back.
看来阁下也精于炼丹之道。¤It seems that you are also proficient in the art of alchemy.
真的很抱歉，这几枚血菩提就当是道友此行的报酬吧。¤I am truly sorry, fellow daoist. Please accept these few blood bodhi fruits as payment for your journey.
不过现在仅仅是丧家之犬罢了。¤But now I am just a dog of a mourning family.
道友多虑了，这一项乃是本门大忌，一经发现必为宗门追杀，我玄古门是不屑于做这种事的。¤Fellow daoist, you worry too much. This is a major taboo in our sect, once discovered, it will lead to the clan chasing after the perpetrator. As a member of the profound ancient sect, I am not interested in doing such things.
{LastName}，等你准备好我就也为你铭刻灵纹，哈哈哈。¤{LastName}, when you're ready, I'll engrave the spirit mark for you. Hahaha.
嗯，我并没有放弃，只是此事目前确实陷入了瓶颈我要整理一下思路。¤Well, I haven't given up, it's just that the situation has currently reached a bottleneck and I need to sort out my thoughts.
道友，也是来购买丹药的么？我玄古门的丹药在衡州可是鼎鼎有名的。¤Fellow Daoist, are you also here to purchase pills? The pills from my Profound Ancient Sect are famous in Hengzhou.
原来是{FirstName}道友久仰久仰，我玄古门会定期在此地售卖丹药。你若是有需要可以来看看。¤I have heard of fellow daoist {FirstName} for a long time, our Profound Ancient Sect regularly sells elixirs in this area. If you have a need, you can come and take a look.
只是最近本门大护法研究出一套法门，我们已经可以从豹麟兽的精血中提炼麒麟血了。¤Recently, our sect's Grand Protector has developed a new method. We can now extract Qilin blood from the essence of leopard and qilin beasts.
还记得我之前说，我之前铭刻灵纹使用的是豹麟兽的精血么，这豹麟兽乃是蕴含麒麟血脉的异兽。使用它的血就有如此效果，若是真的麒麟血功效更是天壤之别。¤Do you remember me saying that I used the blood essence of the Leopard Lin Beast to engrave Spirit Marks? This beast is an exotic creature that contains the bloodline of the Kirin. Using its blood has such an effect, but if it were truly Kirin blood, the efficacy would be vastly different.
不论如何，{FirstName}道友这次帮了大忙，这炼妖散和血菩提你先收好。¤Regardless, fellow daoist {FirstName} has helped a lot this time. Take these demon refining powder and blood bodhi fruit and keep them safe.
哈哈，哪里哪里。¤Haha, not at all.
衡州？¤Hengzhou?
多亏道友拿到火蟾的心脏，现在这炼妖散已经制成了；只是灵纹的存续依旧没有解决，这些普通妖族血脉中缺乏一种灵性，让灵纹难以存续。¤Thanks to my fellow daoist for obtaining the heart of the fire toad, the demon refining powder has now been made. However, the existence of the spirit is still unresolved. The lack of spirituality in the bloodline of these ordinary demons makes it difficult for the spirit to be maintained.
哪里的话，{FirstName}道友想要自然可以，只是我现在手头没有材料。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, of course you can have it as you wish. However, I currently do not have the materials.
那有什么我可以帮忙的么？¤Is there anything I can help with?
再加之炼妖散需要妖兽的精血，我自己也不是一时之间也收集不到那么多。¤Furthermore, the demon refining powder requires the essence of spirit beasts, and I myself cannot collect that much in a short period of time.
哈哈哈，是“我们”收获不小。你看，¤Ha ha ha, we have gained quite a bit. Look,
确实，本门的炼丹手法不拘泥于草木灵物，故而和传统的丹药不太一样。¤Indeed, our alchemy techniques are not restricted to plant and animal spiritual objects, thus is different from traditional pill refining methods.
这次看来进展不小，还有什么我可以帮忙的么？¤This progress seems substantial, is there anything else I can help with?
竟有这等神乎其技的秘法，你们玄古门中兴有望啊。¤There is actually such a miraculously skilled secret technique. Your Profound Ancient Sect may have hope for revival.
你这次收获不小吧。¤You didn't gain a small amount from this time, did you?
而且这精炼麒麟血由我主持，到时候作为奖励我可以分润到一份麟血，正好够你我的用量。¤Moreover, I am in charge of refining this Qilin blood. As a reward, I can share a portion of it with you. It will be just enough for our needs.
我已经找到了。¤I've found it.
经过这次实验，我现在对火系元婴大妖的体质很感兴趣。¤After this experiment, I am now very interested in the physical condition of fire-type nascent soul great demons.
嗯，是的。¤Hmm, yes.
只是....¤Just...
按照之前的理论，感觉还是需要无尽之海的鲲族帮帮啊。¤Based on the previous theory, it feels like we still need the help of the Kun tribe from the Endless Sea.
说罢，他伸出左手繁复的灵纹附于其上，只见其灵力流转之后一层甲壳覆盖在手上，他右手拿出一柄法宝级的剑，向手甲斩去。¤After speaking, he extended his left hand with intricate spirit patterns attached to it. As his spiritual power flowed through it, a layer of armor covered his hand. In his right hand, he held a sword of treasure level and slashed towards the armored hand.
不愧是{FirstName}道友，这等材料也能快速找到。¤Impressive, {FirstName} fellow daoist. You were able to find these materials quickly.
（我还没有找到。）¤(I haven't found it yet.)
轩岚诺摆摆手，一脸无奈。¤Xuan Lannuo waved her hand with a helpless expression.
道友帮我寻找一下，五品火蟾的心脏吧。¤Fellow daoist, could you help me find the heart of a five-grade fire toad?
我看你刚刚的售卖清单是没有炼妖散的。¤I noticed that demon refining powder was not included in your recent sales list.
这一股腥甜之气，感觉是...精血？¤This smell of sweetness and blood... could it be... Qi-blood?
道友是想问那日与人相斗时的灵纹么？¤Fellow daoist, are you asking about the spirit patterns used during the battle with others on that day?
确实，我辈修仙之人本就是逆天而行，讲究夺万物之灵以强己身。本门行事与猎杀妖兽有何区别？¤Indeed, we cultivators go against the heavens, seeking to obtain the spirits of all living beings to strengthen ourselves. How is our approach any different from hunting spirit beasts?
离火门老祖，化神期妖圣，纯血麒麟；让人很是嫉妒呢。¤The Patriarch of the Fire Gate Sect, a Demon Saint in the Void Transformation stage, and a pure-blooded Qilin; it's very enviable.
这个....还是不行么，鲲族说到底也只不过是鲲鹏后裔，虽说实力强劲但是血脉的精纯程度属实一般。¤This... is still not good enough. The Kun clan is ultimately only a descendant of the Kunpeng, although their strength is strong, the purity of their bloodline is really mediocre.
你当我吃药吃傻了么？我又不是嫌自己活得太久。¤Do you think I'm dumb enough to take medicine? I'm not someone who wants to live too long.
还挺可惜的，有什么我可以帮忙的么？¤Unfortunately, it's quite a pity. Is there anything I can help with?
嗯，不过无尽之海凶险异常你切莫勉强自己，我这边自己也在想想办法。¤Well, the endless sea is exceptionally dangerous, so don't push yourself too hard. I'm also thinking of ways to deal with it.
再加之也不知为何那只鲲的血脉之中灵力甚是驳杂，确实是有问题。¤Furthermore, it is unclear why the spiritual energy within the bloodline of that Kun is so complex, which is indeed a problem.
在上次之后，灵纹铭刻之法已经趋于完善。这一次得了麒麟血，正好可以报答{LastName}你的救命之恩以及之前的帮助。¤After the last time, the method of engraving spirit marks has become more refined. This time, obtaining the blood of the qilin, it is the perfect opportunity to repay {LastName} for their life-saving grace and previous aid.
嗯，天魔道将修士凡人视为“肉参”，手段令人发指。¤Well, the Heavenly Demon Cult views cultivators and mortals as root ginsengs, and their methods are horrifying.
聊了这么久，在下玄古门轩岚诺，还未请教道友高姓大名？¤After chatting for so long, I, Xuan Lannuo of the Profound Ancient Sect, have yet to learn the name of my fellow daoist. May I ask for your name?
嗯，灵纹除了模拟妖兽本命天赋的灵气运转之外，也在潜移默化的让手术者吸收精血的灵性，一般的妖兽血脉中的灵性很是稀薄，故而不能持久。¤Well, the spiritual lines, besides simulating the spiritual energy operation of the spirit beast's innate talent, also unconsciously allow the surgeon to absorb the spiritual essence of the blood. The spirituality in the blood of ordinary spirit beasts is extremely rare and therefore cannot be sustained for long.
用量？¤How much?
不愧是{LastName}，这宝贝我可得好好研究研究。¤Truly worthy of {LastName}, I must study this treasure carefully.
看来这次是不能铭刻灵纹了，这些是我最近自己收集到的天材地宝你先收好，你为这东西以身犯险总不好叫你空手而归。¤It looks like I won't be able to engrave spirit patterns this time. These are some rare treasures that I have collected recently. You should take them and keep them safe. It wouldn't be good for you to return empty-handed after risking your life for these things.
我现在对海上妖兽很是感兴趣，但是在宁州确实很难收集到材料¤I am currently very interested in spirit beasts in the sea, but it is indeed difficult to collect materials in Ningzhou.
多谢道友拿到的心脏，但金丹期的妖力根本不足以铭刻新版的灵纹，也不足以炼制炼妖散了。¤Thank you fellow daoist for getting the heart, but the demonic energy of the golden core level is insufficient to inscribe the new version of the spirit lines and to refine demon refining powder.
“噌”的一声，只见他左手未伤分毫。¤With a 'swoosh,' his left hand remained unscathed.
按照现在的进度我需要10年时间，我将成品分你一份。¤At the current pace, I will need 10 years. I will give you a share of the finished product.
未等你回答他就自问自答。¤He answered his own question before waiting for your answer.
轩岚诺左手骨甲脱落，掌心是的灵纹也随之溃散，这情景就好似你们初识之时。¤Xuan Lannuo's left bone armor fell off, and the spirit runes in her palm crumbled along with it. This scene was just like when you first met her.
不要沮丧，此事本就是夺天地之造化，侵日月之玄机。自古以来觊觎这份力量的能人异士不知多少。¤Do not be disheartened. This is the struggle for the fate of heaven and earth, the intrusion upon the mystery of the sun and moon. Throughout history, countless talented and extraordinary individuals have coveted this power.
嗯，是妖兽精血。怎么道友也如同那些迂腐之辈认为此乃邪道？¤Hmm, it's the blood essence of a spirit beast. Why do fellow daoists also consider this to be a demonic path, like those narrow-minded people?
灵性？¤Spirituality?
我现在还要理理思路，还用不到{LastName}你帮忙。¤I need to organize my thoughts right now, I don't need your help yet, {LastName}.
额，你不会是要以我二人之力图谋化神妖圣吧？！！¤Uh, you're not trying to use the two of us to attempt deity transformation, are you?!!
是要五品元婴期的鲲族心脏么。¤Do you need the heart of a nascent soul at the fifth level of the Kun race?
你这丹药似乎不是以常规手法炼制吧。¤Your pill seems to have been refined in an unconventional manner.
道友想说，以血肉炼丹总让人想到天魔道之流？¤Fellow daoist, are you suggesting that using flesh and blood to refine pills reminds you of the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciples?
按照现在的进度我需要10年时间。¤According to the current progress, I need 10 years.
还需要很多妖兽的精血做实验。¤We still need a lot of spirit beast blood for experiments.
徒手接白刃，有时候真的很羡慕这些身怀金钥匙出身的种族啊。¤Sometimes I really envy these races born with a golden key to get a free pass, being able to catch a blade bare-handed.
原来如此，那是我唐突了。¤So that's how it is, I was being presumptuous.
你看得出来他很兴奋。¤Can you tell he is very excited?
不愧是{FirstName}道友，按照现在的进度我需要10年时间，我将成品分你一份。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, you truly live up to your name. At the current pace, I will need 10 years to complete this project. I will split the finished product with you.
道友，可知炎麟大圣？¤Fellow Daoist, have you heard of the Blaze Unicorn Sage?
怎么突然提及？¤Why suddenly mention it?
我本意是将其永久的铭刻在肉体上，就如同妖兽的本命神通一般，不过现在还很不完善。¤My original intention was to permanently engrave it on the body, just like a spirit beast's innate divine skill, but it's still very imperfect at the moment.
炼妖散毕竟是本门机密，就算是我改良的也不好公开交易。¤After all, the demon refining powder is a secret of our sect. Even if it's my improved formula, it's not suitable for public trade.
话说二姐与三妹这两个称谓是从何而来？¤Speaking of the origin of the titles of Second Sister and Third Sister?
（腼腆地）嗯，比之前好多了。¤(Shyly) Hmm, it's much better than before.
唉…此事还需从长计议，荧儿莫要气馁才好。¤Alas...this matter still needs to be discussed in detail. Ying'er, do not be discouraged.
（腼腆地）你觉得荧儿是坏人嘛？¤Do you think Ying Er is a bad person? (Timidly)
呐…究竟要怎么做，才算一个善良的人呢？¤Hmm...what should one do to be considered a kind person?
真正的人，除了这些以外，一定还具备很多我们没有的东西吧？¤A true human must possess many things that we do not have, aside from these, right?
（腼腆地）我擅自把负面的想法都丢给三妹…还害那么多无辜的魂体丧命……¤(Shyly) I secretly dumped all the negative thoughts onto Third Sister... and caused so many innocent soul bodies to die...
（腼腆地）嗯…你来啦？¤Um... you're here?
但现在看来，这些阴暗的想法并不会消失，只是有人帮我承担了而已。¤But now it seems that these dark thoughts will not disappear, someone just helped me bear them.
我不做坏事，也只是有人帮我做了而已…我至始至终只是躲在后面，不敢面对。¤I didn't do anything bad, someone just helped me... I've been hiding behind the scenes all along, afraid to face it.
有天赋只是一方面，但其实她对人的认识却是最少的，就像小孩子一样，要哄才行。¤Talent is just one aspect, but in fact, she knows the least about people, just like a child, she needs to be coaxed.
你恢复的怎么样了？¤How is your recovery going?
那你们后来聊过了嘛？¤Did you guys talk later?
保护我的是姐姐，需要保护的是妹妹，就这么叫下来啦。¤My protector is my elder sister, and the one who needs protection is my younger sister. That's how it goes.
这…此事牵扯甚多，无法轻易定论…不过我并不觉得荧儿是坏人。¤This... it involves a lot, and it's not easy to come to a conclusion... but I don't think Ying'er is a bad person.
（腼腆地）在我们的开导下，三妹也终于开口说话了。¤(Bashfully) With our encouragement, Third Sister finally spoke up.
（腼腆地）嗯…其实二和三只是诞生的顺序。¤(Under a shy manner) Well... actually Second and Third were only born in sequence.
（腼腆地）二姐还是和往常一样，但是她只是支持我的想法，并没有自己的建议。¤(Shyly) Second Sister is still the same as usual, but she only supports my ideas and doesn't have her own suggestions.
（腼腆地）没…只恢复了一点点…¤(Shyly, only a little bit has recovered...)
（腼腆地）嗯…在伤势恢复之前，我会一直等在这里。¤(Meanwhile, bashfully) Hmm...I will wait here until my injuries recover.
可能是那次对她的打击太大了吧。¤Maybe the blow to her was too great that time.
（腼腆地）以前觉得，只要自己没有阴暗的想法，自己不做坏事，就是一个善良的人。¤(Timidly) Before, I thought that as long as I didn't have any dark thoughts and didn't do bad things, I was a kind person.
原来如此…¤So that's how it is...
今日便聊到这吧，我还会再回来看你的。¤Let's chat until here today. I will come back and see you again.
你能想到这些，就已经是一个善良的人了。¤If you can think of these, you are already a kind person.
她叹了一口气。¤She let out a sigh.
她点了点头。¤She nodded.
而三妹从那之后就再也没有和我们说过话了……¤And since then, Third Sister never spoke to us again...
坏人？从何说起？¤Bad person? Where do we begin?
在那之后，我再也没有把任何负面的东西丢给三妹，所以也开始慢慢地理解三妹了。¤After that, I never threw any negative things at Sanmei again, so I slowly began to understand her.
三妹不是很强嘛？为什么还需要保护？¤Isn't Third Sister already quite strong? Why does she still need protection?
聊过之后，我觉得我们中任何一人与真正的人相比都是不完整的，我想先成为一个真正的人。¤After chatting, I feel that any of us are incomplete compared to a true person. I want to become a true person first.
（低声）我们两分头想办法在府里打听我大姐婚事的消息，等晚上我再想办法来找你。¤(Whispering) Let's split up and inquire about my elder sister's marriage at the residence. I'll come find you later tonight.
{FirstName}道友你就先住在这儿吧，有什么事可以找府里的小厮。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, you can stay here for now. If you need anything, you can ask the maid servants in the mansion.
“终于来了。”¤Finally arrived.
你一路寻来，尽管没有确切的消息，但排除了许多地方，也打探了些线索。¤You searched along the way, although there was no definite news, but you ruled out many places and also inquired about some clues.
良久，一名魂体在岛上收集完神阴石后，才刚飞出岛，一条触须便从海底伸出，将它瞬间吸嗜殆尽。¤After a long time, a soul body collected all the Shenyin stones on the island. Just as it flew out of the island, a tentacle stretched out from the sea floor and sucked it in an instant.
“此妖不除，不知又要祸害多少人。”¤If this demon is not eradicated, who knows how many more people will suffer.
经过一番调查，你找到了那只特殊的元婴水母之所在。¤After some investigation, you have located the whereabouts of the special nascent soul jellyfish.
收起神识，你极速前往事发地，运起功法便向它攻去。¤Retract your soul sense, move quickly to the scene and use technique to attack it.
想到此处，你运起功法便向它攻去。¤Thinking this, you activate your technique and attack towards it.
趁着这个瞬间，你看清了它的本体——一只元婴期的冥河水母。你感觉它与一般水母有些不同，但初看之下也说不出个所以然。¤As you seize this moment, you catch sight of its true form a nascent soul deepwater jellyfish. You sense that it differs from the usual jellyfish, but at first glance, you cannot explain why.
最终，你找到了一处最可疑的地方，放开神识，静待幽厄的出现。¤Finally, you found the most suspicious place and released your soul sense, waiting for the appearance of apotropaic magic.
咳咳...没想到这件法宝威力这么大，还是先回宗门再说。¤Ahem... I didn't expect this artifact to be so powerful. Let's go back to the clan first.
你看四下无人，便捏了个法决，将两人尸体处理掉，然后飞快地离开了。¤You looked around and saw no one, then you pinched a spell to dispose of the bodies of the two people, and then quickly left.
咳咳...没想到这件法宝威力这么大，还是先离开这里吧。¤Ahem... I didn't expect this artifact to be so powerful. Let's leave here first.
你检查躺在地上的男子，发现他已经断气了。¤You check the man lying on the ground and find that he has already breathed his last.
而不通炼器之道的你显然也就是手忙脚乱的那一个。¤As the one who lacks understanding in the art of refining, you are evidently the one who's flustered and confused.
说罢，大家便起火热炉开始在长老的指点下融化材料，有人得心应手也有的手忙脚乱。¤After speaking, they all lit up their fiery furnaces and began melting materials under the guidance of the elder. Some were adept, while others were clumsy.
索性之后没有什么意外的顺利成器了。¤After that, there were no unexpected snags and things went smoothly.
即使按照长老的示范，融化的材料也如同不听话的顽童不愿聚集在一起，在台上示范的长老注意到你这边的情况。¤Even following the example of the elder, the melted materials refused to gather together like disobedient children. The elder demonstrating on the stage noticed the situation on your side.
她先是一惊，疑惑的抬头看向你。¤She was first surprised, raising her head in confusion to look at you.
即使按照长老的示范，融化的材料也如同不听话的顽童不远聚集在一起。¤Even following the example of the elders, the melted materials still gathered together like disobedient children.
大家在长老的指点下按部就班的进行着，稍有出错的人也被长老及时纠正。¤Everyone is following the arrangements under the guidance of the elders. Anyone who makes a mistake is promptly corrected by the elders.
嗯，多谢。¤Um, thank you.
长老见人来的差不多了，便宣布炼器大会开始。¤The elder announced the start of the weapon making assembly as soon as most people arrived.
噗呲~你这样强行捏合材料是不行的。¤Pu Ci~It's not feasible for you to forcefully mix and match materials.
好了，本次炼器大会到此为止，你们细细体会个中细节，希望你们在炼器之道上走的更远。¤Alright, the weapon making assembly has come to an end. Take some time to reflect on the finer details and hopefully, it will help guide you further on your journey in the art of refining.
本门炼器大会既是为了精进门下弟子炼器之道，也是为了补充宗门制式法器。¤The Weapon Making Assembly of our clan serves two purposes: to improve the art of refining weapons for our disciples, and to replenish our stock of standard magic tools.
我会在台上炼制法宝做示范，你们跟着我一步步来炼制法器、符器，宗门资源来之不易，切记不要出了差错。明白么？¤I will demonstrate the crafting of artifacts on stage, and you will follow my steps to craft magic tools and runic weapons. Being a member of the clan comes with valuable resources, so we must be careful to avoid mistakes. Do you understand?
多谢长老指点。¤Thank you, Elder, for your guidance.
嗯，你先在一旁稍作等候。¤Hmm, you wait here for a moment.
你一边手掐法诀一道道灵纹融入器胚之中，一边对边上的女弟子暗暗传音指点。¤While manipulating the magic seal, you infused spirit threads into the embryo of the device. Meanwhile, you secretly sent messages to the female disciple next to you, offering guidance.
她按照你说的做手中动作不再慌乱，器胚也稳定起来。¤She followed your instructions and her hand movements became steady, and the piece of equipment stabilized.
唉，你这个样子如何成器呢？按我说的做，听仔细了啊，我再讲一遍。¤Ah, how can you become an instrument like this? Do as I say, listen carefully, let me say it again.
谢长老教诲。¤Thank you Elder for your guidance.
你是来参加炼器大会的？（炼器大会需消耗两年时间）¤Are you here to attend a weapon making conference? (The conference will take two years to participate in.)
台上长老，若有所思的望向你，想你传音道。¤The elder on the stage looks at you thoughtfully, as if wanting to convey a message to you.
嗯，我作为炼器长老也是分内之事。¤Well, it's just my duty as a forging elder.
别慌，按我说的做~¤Don't panic, do as I say~
在你旁边的女弟子就是手忙脚乱的人之一。¤The female disciple next to you is one of the people who is very busy.
在她的指点下融化的材料逐渐听话起来开始粘合在一起。¤Under her guidance, the materials gradually melted and obediently began to adhere to each other.
慌乱的她吸引了长老的注意力，在长老的呵斥下，总算转危为安安全成器。¤The panicked state of the woman caught the attention of the elder. With the elder's reprimand, she was finally able to turn the situation around and become safe.
同门之间互相帮助也是应该的，再说你这个器胚要是爆开来我也要遭殃呢。¤It's natural for fellow disciples to help each other. Besides, if your spirit object explodes, I'll also be affected.
之后有宗门长老收取了你们炼制的法宝。¤Afterwards, a member of the clan elder collected the artifacts that you've refined.
以你的炼器造诣，区区成器不在话下，你甚至有余力看看其他同门。¤With your refining skills, it is easy for you to create tools. You even have extra energy to take a look at your fellow disciples.
台上台下的长老和弟子都已经成器。¤The elders and disciples on the stage and off have all achieved mastery.
以你的炼器造诣，区区符器不在话下，所有步骤都在按部就班的进行，之后便没有什么意外的顺利成器了。¤With your refining skills, using a runic weapon is no problem at all. All the steps are being carried out in an orderly manner, so there shouldn't be any unexpected hiccups in successfully creating the weapon.
之后，在长老的指点下融化的材料逐渐听话起来开始粘合在一起。¤Afterwards, the melted materials gradually obeyed under the guidance of the elder and began to stick together.
你看到不少本门弟子陆续前来参加炼器大会。¤You see many disciples from our sect coming one after another to attend the weapon making conference.
同门之间互相帮助也是应该的，再说她这个炸弹要是爆开来我也要遭殃呢。¤It's only natural for fellow sect members to help each other, and besides, if this bomb goes off, I'll be in trouble too.
虽然万宝阁东西很多，但真的“好东西”还得要来这里啊。¤Although there are many things in the Ten Thousand Treasures Pavilion, the real good stuff still has to come here.
千流岛功法虽强，但据我所知岛上规矩也多得很，并没有碎星岛和蓬莎岛来得自在。¤Although the techniques on Myriad Rivers Island are powerful, as far as I know, the rules on the island are quite strict and not as free-spirited as Shattered Star Island and Pongsha Island.
何为仙真，只在逍遥，道在心中，但求痛快！¤What is true immortality? Only found in prosperity, with the path lying within one's heart. Seek only for enjoyment!
临行前掌门曾嘱托我寻找千年前于古迹中失踪的衍复长老，不过长老失踪已有千年，我担心...唉......¤Before leaving, the master entrusted me with the task of finding the missing elder Yanfu who disappeared in the ancient ruins a thousand years ago. However, the elder has been missing for a millennium, and I am worried... sigh...
传闻宁州古迹乃为上古正魔大战的主战场，其内定有许多大能残存的剑意。若机缘之下体悟此等剑意，定令我等获益匪浅。¤Rumours say that the Ning Province Ancient Ruin was the main battlefield of a great battle between the righteous and evil forces of ancient times, and contains many remnants of powerful sword intent. If one has the opportunity to comprehend this sword intent, it will surely bring great benefits.
万年前一战令魔修四把魔剑沦落各地，真想见识一下那魔剑究竟何等威力。¤A battle from ten thousand years ago caused four demon swords to be scattered across the world, and I truly wish to witness the power of those demon swords.
小子，看看有什么想要的？¤Boy, what do you want to see?
嗨，像你这样的，我来东石谷每天都要见到百八十个呢。只不过，真正能成正果的又有几个呢……¤Hi, people like you, I see around 180 of every day in East Stone Valley. Only a few can truly achieve success...
修仙一途只有适合，没有最好。而最适合道友你的嘛……全在这里了！¤The path of cultivating immortality has only what suits you, there is no best. And the most suitable thing for you, fellow daoist... it's all here!
灵气护罩，聚气疗伤，正适合客官您这样初出茅庐的青年才俊！¤Spirit Shield, Qi Gathering Healing, are perfect for young talents like you who are just starting out!
原来是化尘教的{FirstName}长老，今日一见果真道骨仙风，有大家之范。¤Originally, it is Elder {FirstName} from the Shifting Sand Sect. Seeing you today, you truly embody the demeanor of a Daoist Immortal, setting an example for everyone.
原来是竹山宗的长春长老，久仰大名，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turned out to be Elder Changchun of Bamboo Mountain Sect. I have heard your great name before, and if we were to meet again in ancient ruins, please take care of me.
原来是离火门的{FirstName}长老，今日一见果真道骨仙风，有大家之范。¤It turns out that {FirstName} is an elder of the Fire Gate Sect. Today, upon meeting him, I see that he truly embodies the demeanor of an immortal with remarkable grace and poise.
这是自然，{$TmpTalkString}言重了，我倒是还有一事，烦请{$TmpTalkString}相助。¤This is natural, {$TmpTalkString} has said it too harshly. However, I do have one request, I kindly ask for {$TmpTalkString}'s assistance.
宁州古迹横亘万年时光，不知其内是否能存在我宗门于历史中遗失的功法。¤The ancient ruins of Ning Province have stood the test of time for thousands of years. It is unknown whether our clan's lost techniques from history still exist within them.
我派不少的功法传承由于年代久远有所缺失，现在已经失传了。¤Many of our sect's technique inheritances have been lost due to their age, and are now extinct.
原来是长春长老。许久未见，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turned out to be Elder Changchun. We haven't seen each other for a long time, so if we happen to meet in the ancient ruins, please take good care of me.
宁州古迹横亘万年时光，希望其内能存在我宗门于历史中遗失的功法。¤The ancient ruins of Ning Province span across thousands of years, and I hope that our clan's lost techniques from history can be found within.
希望{FirstName}道友也能在宁州古迹中觅得自己的机缘。¤I hope fellow daoist {FirstName} can also find their own opportunity in the Ning Province Ancient Ruin.
{$TmpTalkString}此番若是能在古迹中找到什么有关我派功法传承的线索，还请帮忙留意一番。¤{$TmpTalkString} If I can find any clues related to the inheritance of my sect's cultivation techniques in these ancient ruins, please keep an eye out for me.
希望{$TmpTalkString}也能在宁州古迹中觅得自己的机缘。¤I hope {$TmpTalkString} can also find their own destiny in the ancient ruins of Ning Province.
原来是{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}，今日一见果真道骨仙风，有大家之范。¤So you are {$TmpTalkString}{FirstName}, it's really admirable to witness your immortal style today, you have the aura of a great one among us.
原来是星河剑派的{FirstName}长老，今日一见果真道骨仙风，有大家之范。¤Originally, it was {FirstName}, an elder from the Celestial River Sword Sect. Seeing you today, truly showcases the demeanor of a celestial immortal, worthy of admiration.
长春长老但说无妨。¤Elder Changchun said it doesn't matter.
原来是金虹剑派的{FirstName}长老，今日一见果真道骨仙风，有大家之范。¤It turned out to be Elder {FirstName} of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect. As expected, he exuded a divine and elegant aura today, setting an example for everyone.
不错的灵力，这头推山兽绝非普通的筑基期妖兽实力，要小心应对！¤Good spiritual power, this mountain pushing beast is not an ordinary foundation establishment spirit beast. Be careful in dealing with it!
阴风怒号，浊浪排空，日星隐曜，山岳潜形......\r\n一盏茶，一柱香的功夫，大半个宁州便被笼罩在这滚滚浓云之下。¤The sinister wind roared, the turbid waves cleared the sky, the sun and stars disappeared, and the mountains crouched in hiding... In the time it takes to brew a pot of tea and burn a stick of incense, most of Ningzhou is shrouded in these rolling, dense clouds.
伴随着地裂山崩般的一声炸雷，酝酿许久的墨云霎时之间疯狂起来，好似惊涛骇浪一般，向着四面八方翻涌而去，迅速遮蔽了整个天空，浩浩汤汤，无边无际......¤Accompanied by a thunderous explosion like the splitting of mountains, the long-gestating ink clouds suddenly became frenzied, like a tidal wave and horrific waves, surging in all directions, rapidly obscuring the entire sky, vast and boundless...
先是几道似有似无的雷鸣之声，由远及近，墨黑的浓云缓缓凝聚。¤First, there were several faint thunderous sounds that seemed to come from afar and gradually approached. Then, thick black clouds slowly gathered.
小友功力深厚，我也是佩服的很啊。¤My young friend has profound skill, and I truly admire it.
哈哈哈，痛快！痛快！¤Hahaha, enjoyable! Enjoyable!
你望向远处——这里除了你之外，竟然还有一名人类修士。¤You look towards the distance besides you, there is actually another human cultivator here.
就算本座答应帮你，又有什么好处？¤Even if I promise to help you, what's in it for me?
我天生便是玄阴绝脉，正常的修炼之地并不适合我，反倒是待在这阴诡地狱之中要自在一些。¤I was born with the Yin Absolute Veins and normal cultivation land does not suit me. Instead, I find myself more at ease within this eerie and hellish environment.
你没有跟他废话，直接运起功法向他攻去。¤Without wasting words with him, you directly execute your technique and attack him.
道友可有改变主意？¤Fellow daoist, have you had a change of heart?
他所说的确不无道理，但这与他别有图谋也并不冲突。¤What he said is not unreasonable, but this does not conflict with his ulterior motives.
我这有一颗避阴珠，道友只管拿着此珠，看准机会潜入气旋便是，我自会掩护你，道友莫要担心。¤I have a Yin-Avoiding Pearl here. Fellow Daoist, just take this pearl and wait for the opportunity to sneak into the vortex. I will protect you, so don't worry.
前辈可有改变主意？¤Senior, have you changed your mind?
该不会是故意离间我与岛主，自己却别有用意？¤Could it be that they are intentionally trying to separate me from the island lord, but have their own ulterior motives?
……你若改变了主意，再来找我便是。¤If you change your mind, then come to me again.
若你准备妥当，直接潜入那阴气旋便是，届时我自会掩护你。¤If you are prepared, you can directly sneak into the yin cyclone, and I will protect you at that time.
该说的也都说完了。此事，道友意下如何？¤All that needed to be said has been said. Fellow Daoist, what is your opinion on this matter?
…好，我考虑考虑。¤Okay, I'll think about it.
据说这秘术的使用条件非常苛刻，需要等待一个特殊的时间。当然，这只是岛主自己的说辞...¤It is said that the usage conditions of these secret arts are extremely demanding, requiring a special time to wait for. Of course, this is only the island owner's own claim...
你可曾想过，岛主要那么多神阴石作甚？¤Have you ever thought about why the island lord needs so many shenyin stones?
岛主在这种事上说谎究极是想掩盖什么？¤What is the island lord trying to cover up by lying about this matter?
不错，只是你想让本座如何帮你？¤Not bad, but how do you want me to help you?
这气旋有专人把守，在下始终没能找到机会进去探查一番。¤The cyclone is guarded by someone. I've never found a chance to explore it.
道友修为不俗，想必岛主已经将那几个任务交代给你了吧。¤Fellow daoist, your cultivation is impressive. I believe the island master has already given you those quests.
原来你是为此而来...¤So you came for this...
我天生玄阴绝脉，若不像这样寻觅些机缘，恐怕寿元早就耗尽了。¤I was born with the yin absolute veins. If I hadn't been searching for opportunities like this, my lifespan would have already been exhausted.
前辈不知，在下天生便是玄阴绝脉，正常的修炼之地并不适合在下，反倒是待在这阴诡地狱之中要自在一些。¤Senior, you may not know this, but I was born with the Yin Absolute Veins. The normal cultivation land is not suitable for me, but I find more comfort staying in this eerie underworld.
既然道友已然推辞掉他们的任务，我便信得过道友了，说说倒也无妨。¤Since fellow daoist has already declined their quests, I trust fellow daoist and it's okay to speak about it.
修仙本就是逆天而行…¤Cultivation itself is a reverse path...
道友可曾想过，这阴气气旋究竟从何而来？¤Fellow daoist, have you ever wondered where this Yin energy vortex came from?
在岛上，不仅那秘术需要神阴石换得，借助阴气旋修炼也需要缴纳神阴石。¤On the island, not only do secret arts require the exchange of shenyin stones, but cultivation using yin cyclones also requires the payment of shenyin stones.
此乃避阴珠，道友拿着此珠，便可隔绝阴气困扰。¤This is the Yin Avoiding Pearl. Fellow Daoist, with this pearl in hand, you can ward off any troubles caused by Yin Qi.
只要前辈答应帮我，我自有方法拖住这些魂体。¤As long as the senior agrees to help me, I have a way to hold back these soul bodies.
你表面上附和他，实际上却在暗自思忖。¤You nodded in agreement with him on the surface, but were secretly pondering in your heart.
你向那人走去，他似乎并没有注意到你，只是在那通天的阴气旋前闭目修炼。¤You walked towards that person, who seemed to not notice you, but was only practicing with closed eyes in front of that towering yin cyclone.
倘若气旋本就是岛主创造的，还有人会相信“气旋是为了供魂体修炼用”这种鬼话吗？¤If the cyclone was created by the Island Master, would anyone believe the nonsense that the cyclone was created for the purpose of cultivating the soul body?
届时前辈只需潜入气旋拿到宝物即可。¤At that time, the senior only needs to sneak into the vortex and obtain the treasure.
那关于这宝物，你可有什么头绪？¤What do you know about this treasure?
你跟本座讲条件？¤Do you dare to set conditions with me?
前辈可曾想过，这阴气气旋究竟从何而来？¤Senior, have you ever thought about where this Yin energy cyclone comes from?
还是先去幽冥海与玄冥海看看情况再做决断吧。¤Let's first go to the deep hell sea and deep black sea to see the situation before making a decision.
你感受到他的神情有一丝决绝。¤You feel a trace of determination in his expression.
道友既非阴魂，也需要借此阴气旋修炼？¤Fellow Daoist, since you are not a Yin spirit, do you also need to cultivate using the Yin Cyclone?
他没有再作更多解释，而是意味深长地看了你一眼。¤He didn't explain further, but gave you a meaningful look.
道友在此修炼多年，可曾了解过逆天造化术？¤Fellow daoist, have you been cultivating here for many years? Have you ever heard of defying good fortune?
该说的也都说完了。此事，前辈意下如何？¤I have said all that needs to be said. Senior, what is your opinion on this matter?
依我看，那复生之法多半也是子虚乌有。即便是有，也定然大有问题。¤In my opinion, the method of resurrection is mostly a pipe dream. Even if it exists, there are bound to be significant issues.
原来前辈是为此术而来，敢问前辈可有何疑问？¤So it turns out that Senior came for this technique, may I ask if Senior has any questions?
这气旋有专人把守，我始终没能找到机会进去探查一番。¤This cyclone is guarded by someone specialized, and I have never found an opportunity to explore it.
道友既然要去那里替他们办事，大可一探究竟。相信有心探索之下，一定会对这里有新的认识。¤Fellow daoist, since you are going there to help them with their affairs, it's best to find out what's going on. I believe that with a sincere exploration, you will definitely gain a new understanding of this place.
只要道友答应帮我，我自有方法拖住这些魂体。¤As long as fellow daoist agrees to help me, I have a method to hold off these soul bodies.
以前辈的实力，剩下的自然都不是问题。¤With the senior's strength, the remaining matters are naturally not a problem.
倘若气旋本就是岛主创造的，你还会相信“气旋是为了供魂体修炼用”这种鬼话吗？¤If the whirlwind was indeed created by the island owner, would you still believe in the nonsense that the whirlwind is created for the purpose of soul body cultivation?
道友准备好之后，直接潜入气旋便是。¤Fellow daoist, once you're prepared, simply dive into the cyclone.
难道不是为了维持气旋所用？¤Isn't it for the sake of maintaining the cyclone?
依我看，这气旋下定有极阴的宝物存在。岛主搜集这么多神阴石，大抵便是滋养宝物之用。¤In my opinion, there must be extremely yin treasures hidden within this hurricane. The island owner has collected so many shenyin stones, most likely to nourish these treasures.
自然是为了隐瞒这气旋的真实来历。¤Nature intends to conceal the true origin of this cyclone.
这…难道并非天然形成？¤This...could it be that it's not naturally formed?
恐怕是想利用这些魂体帮他收集神阴石。¤I'm afraid he wants to use these soul bodies to help him collect shenyin stones.
道友只要小心一些，这些全然都不是问题。¤Fellow Daoist, as long as you are cautious, all of these are not problems at all.
其实，这阴魂岛并非从上古流传下来，而是由岛主一手创建的。¤Actually, Ghost Island was not passed down from ancient times, but was created by the island master personally.
其中利弊，道友便自行思量吧。¤As for the pros and cons, fellow daoist, you may consider them on your own.
你打算如何获取这宝物？¤How do you plan to obtain this treasure?
不是为了维持气旋所用？¤Is it not used to maintain the cyclone?
岛主对外宣称“这座岛是上古流传下来的”，便是彻头彻尾的谎言。¤The island master publicly claims that this island has been passed down from ancient times, which is a complete lie.
也罢，本座便不计较了。¤Never mind, this one will not hold it against you.
老头，依你之见，此人说的是真是假？¤Old man, in your opinion, is what this person saying true or false?
……前辈若改变了主意，可随时告知在下，在下会一直在此等候前辈。¤...Senior, if you change your mind, please inform me at any time. I will stay here waiting for you.
所以任何机会我都不会放过，哪怕要冒生命危险。¤So I will not let go of any opportunity, even if it means risking my life.
不过今日却不同以往。道友若肯助我，这气旋也不是没有机会探查一二。¤However, today is different from the past. Fellow Daoist, if you are willing to help me, there may be a chance to explore this cyclone.
你想问些什么？¤What do you want to ask?
若你不帮岛主他们做事，我倒不是不能给你透露一二。¤If you don't help the island owner with their tasks, I can still reveal a thing or two to you.
只见他意味深长地看着你，不再说话。¤I saw him look at you with a meaningful gaze and he no longer spoke.
但…岛主在这种事上说谎究极是想掩盖什么？¤But... what is the island master trying to cover up by lying about this matter?
在下天生玄阴绝脉，若不寻觅些机缘，恐怕还未突破，寿元便先耗尽了。¤I was born with the yin absolute veins. If I don't find some opportunities, I am afraid I will not be able to make a breakthrough, and my lifespan will be consumed first.
事成之后，定然少不了道友的好处。在下游历多年，最不缺的便是天才地宝。¤After this matter is complete, I will definitely not forget the benefits to my fellow daoist. I have traveled extensively throughout the land for many years, and I am never lacking in talented individuals or precious treasures.
这气旋乃是源源不断的聚集阴气，又非向外输出阴气，怎可能需要投入神阴石来维持？¤This cyclone is constantly gathering Yin energy from its source, and does not require the use of a Shenyin Stone to channel Yin energy outward.
没错，岛主若真有这复生之法，只需等时候到了自己用便是，何必大费干戈当个岛主，还将这秘法公诸于众。¤Indeed, if the island master truly possesses the power of reincarnation, there is no need to go through the trouble of being an island master and revealing this secret technique to the public. Simply wait until the time is right to use it for oneself.
那岛主隐瞒这些又有何目的？¤What is the purpose of the island owner hiding these things?
在下这有一颗避阴珠，前辈只管拿着此珠，看准机会潜入气旋便是，在下自会掩护前辈，¤I have a Yin-avoiding pearl here. Senior, just take this pearl and when you see the opportunity, sneak into the vortex. I will protect you.
岛主每过一段时间，都要将收集到的神阴石送下去，所以这气旋本身应该没有太大危险。就算有危险，最多也就是岛主的一些小伎俩罢了。¤Every once in a while, the island master would send the collected shenyin stones down, so the cyclone itself shouldn't be too dangerous. Even if there is any danger, it would just be some small tricks of the island master at most.
他点了点头，从储物袋拿出了一颗黑色的石珠。¤He nodded and took out a black stone bead from the storage pouch.
那人转过头，上下打量了你一番。你注意到了他阴阳异色的双瞳，与你一样。¤The man turned his head and appraised you from head to toe. You noticed his yin and yang different-colored eyes, just like yours.
说着，他从储物袋拿出了一颗黑色的石珠。¤As he spoke, he took out a black stone bead from a storage pouch.
哈哈哈，道友既然这么问了，想必对于岛主所言确也将信将疑。¤Hahaha, fellow daoist since you asked, you must be skeptical about what the island master said.
倒也不无道理…可他究竟有何图谋？¤It's not without reason... But what exactly is his intention?
不错，只是你打算如何出手？¤Not bad, but how do you plan to make a move?
此乃避阴珠，前辈拿着此珠，便可隔绝阴气困扰。¤This is the Avoid Yin Pearl. Seniors who hold this pearl can ward off Yin Qi.
这种极阴的宝物乃我急需，阁下就算拿去别处卖掉，出的价位也不可能比我更高。¤This extreme yin treasure is exactly what I urgently need. Even if you were to sell it elsewhere, the price you would receive wouldn't be higher than what I'm offering.
相信其中有许多也是对前辈有用之物。¤I believe many of them are also useful for our senior practitioners.
你打算怎么探查这阴气旋？¤How do you plan to investigate this yin cyclone?
我并没有恶意，只是初来乍到，对于这阴魂岛还是诸多不解之处，不知道友可否指点一二？¤I have no malicious intentions, I am just new here and there are still many things I don't understand about this Ghost Island. Fellow daoist, do you perhaps know anything that can enlighten me?
他看了你一眼，没有理睬你。¤He glanced at you without paying attention to you.
若前辈准备妥当，直接潜入那阴气旋便是。¤If Senior is prepared, diving directly into that Yin Cyclone is the way to go.
届时道友只需潜入气旋拿到宝物即可。¤Fellow Daoist, at that time, you only need to sneak into the cyclone and obtain the treasure.
前辈可曾想过，岛主要那么多神阴石作甚？¤Senior, have you ever thought about why the island owner needs so many shenyin stones?
那依你之见，他究竟有何图谋？¤In your opinion, what exactly is his plan?
不帮他们做事？具体要如何？¤Not help them do things? How exactly?
也罢，本座便破例帮你一次罢。¤Fine, this time I'll make an exception and help you.
就算我答应帮你，又有什么好处？你不怕我拿着宝物一走了之？¤Even if I agree to help you, what benefit is there for me? Aren't you afraid that I'll take the treasure and leave?
你我所谋之事不同，我对这秘术也毫无兴趣。不过你既已从岛主那里问到了这本秘术，莫非还有什么其它疑虑？¤Our plans are different, and I have no interest in these secret arts. But since you have obtained this book of secret arts from the island owner, do you have any other concerns?
…此事太过危险，我们有何必要冒这个险？¤This matter is too dangerous. Why do we need to take this risk?
前辈既然这么问了，想必对于岛主所言确也将信将疑。¤Senior, since you asked that, you must surely doubt what the island master said.
反倒是吸引他们的注意力，需要制造足够的骚乱。万一下不了台，情况定然比潜入更加气旋凶险。¤On the contrary, it attracts their attention and requires creating enough chaos. If we fail, the situation will undoubtedly be more dangerous than infiltration.
他没有再作更多解释，而是坚定地看了你一眼。¤He didn't give any more explanations, but gave you a firm look.
没想到在这里竟然还能遇见别的人类修士，倒正好向他打探一番，探探那逆天造化术的虚实...¤I didn't expect to meet other human cultivators here. It just so happens that I can inquire about the truth of the defying good fortune technique from him.
阴魂岛究竟有何图谋，道友应该可以透漏一二了吧？¤What exactly is the plan for Ghost Island? Fellow daoist, can you enlighten us?
到时你只需推辞这些任务，自然便算是不帮他们做事。¤When the time comes, you just need to decline these quests, and it will naturally be considered as not helping them with their tasks.
若前辈不帮岛主他们做事，在下便将事情的来龙去脉都告知前辈。¤If senior does not help the island owner with their tasks, I will inform senior of all the details regarding the matter.
哦？此事对你而言并不安全，你有何必要冒这个险？¤Oh? This is not safe for you, why do you have to take this risk?
在下绝无此意，只是此事所涉隐秘甚多，若是被岛主知道，在下同样有性命之忧，所以只能出此下策。¤I have no intention of doing so, but this matter involves too much secrecy. If it is known by the island owner, I will also be in danger. Therefore, I can only resort to this.
不过今日却不同以往。前辈若肯助我，这气旋也不是没有机会探查一二。¤However, today is different from the past. If the Senior is willing to help me, there may be a chance to explore this cyclone.
你向那人走去，他似乎感受到了你的威压，随即起身向你作了一揖。你注意到了他阴阳异色的双瞳，与你一样。¤You walked towards that person and he seems to have felt your might suppression. He stood up and bowed to you. You noticed his yin and yang eyes that were of different colors, just like yours.
事成之后，定然少不了前辈的好处。在下游历多年，最不缺的便是天才地宝。¤After the matter is settled, I will definitely not forget the senior's help. As someone who has traveled for many years, I have always been blessed with talented individuals and precious treasures.
玄冥海，幽冥海与这里不同，虽然也有许多魂体，但并非都来自阴魂岛。¤The Deep Black Sea and the Deep Hell Sea are different from this place. Although there are also many soul bodies, not all of them come from Ghost Island.
这气旋下不知道有什么危险，道友就这么让我下去，似乎有所不妥吧？¤I don't know if there's any danger in this cyclone. Fellow Daoist, are you sure it's safe for me to go down there? It seems a bit suspicious.
前辈来此，不知有何吩咐？¤Senior, why have you come here? Do you have any orders?
道友乃人类之躯，也需要借此阴气旋修炼？¤Fellow daoist is also a human body, do you need to use the Yin Cyclone to cultivate?
道友可曾听说过逆天造化术？¤Fellow Daoist, have you ever heard of the Defying Good Fortune technique?
听说有很多地下交易的秘市，参加的人要蒙面敛息隐藏身份，非常神秘。¤I heard there are many secret markets for underground trades where participants have to conceal their identity by hiding and restraining themselves. It's quite mysterious.
你们本就不是来化龙海域生事的，故此并不打算残害无辜。你收回手中的法宝，那龙族窜入海中，很快便不见了踪影。¤You were not here to cause trouble in the Shifting Dragon Sea, so we have no intention of harming the innocent. Please retract your artifact, and the dragon clan will quickly disappear into the depths of the sea.
你并不打算手下留情，一声尖厉的长啸过后，那龙族便没了生机。¤You have no intention of showing mercy. After a sharp and piercing roar, the dragon clan lost its vitality.
情急之下，你收捏法诀就准备驱使神通发动攻击。¤In a moment of desperation, you quickly formed the hand seals and prepared to use your divine skill to launch a strike.
我现在若是出现在林府中，难免被发现，然后抓回去严加看管。所以只能拜托{FirstName}道友帮我去调查一下了。¤If I were to appear in Lin House now, I would undoubtedly be discovered and captured, then tightly monitored. Therefore, I can only ask for fellow daoist {FirstName}'s help in investigating.
你是何人？为何闯入我的居所？¤Who are you? Why did you invade my home?
睁开眼时，却看见一个陌生的女性修士正在安静的看着你。不过下意识的神识探测后，你却完全无法发现她的神识波动，好似房中站的不过是一个逼真的傀儡。¤When you opened your eyes, you saw a stranger cultivator, a woman, quietly observing you. However, when you instinctively used your soul sense to probe for her presence, you found that there was no fluctuation in her soul sense at all, as if the figure standing in the room was a realistic puppet.
但若是急于搜集证据，难免被几位长老察觉。若是因此在林家爆发战斗，难得逃离不说，还容易引起警戒，之后要行动更是难上加难。¤But if one is too eager to gather evidence, it is inevitable that they will be noticed by some of the elders. If a combat breaks out in the Lin Family because of this, not only will it be difficult to escape, but it will also easily raise alarms, making it even harder to act afterwards.
啊，可以么？¤Ah, may I?
林姑娘既有应对之策，那我也就放心了。¤Miss Lin has a plan in place, so I can rest assured.
好，林姑娘便在此等我消息吧。¤Okay, Miss Lin, then please wait for my message here.
修仙已是逆天而为，吾辈修仙者岂能让他人安排命运，这个忙我帮定了！¤Cultivation has already defied the heavens, how could we practitioners of cultivation let others arrange our destinies? I'll take care of this for you!
见状，她在原地坐下哭了起来。你也不关心是真是假，只是不想冒这个风险，干脆封闭了自己的五感，继续修炼。¤Upon seeing this, she sat down in place and began to cry. You don't care if it's true or not, you simply don't want to take any risks and decide to close off your five senses, continuing with your cultivation.
刚才的法宝便是能在这方面助道友一臂之力。只要在进入林府之前用灵力激发法宝，纵是几位金丹长老也难以察觉行踪，之后只要不是正面撞上，就不必担心啦。¤The artifact from earlier can assist fellow daoists in this area. As long as the artifact is activated with spiritual energy before entering the Lin House, even several golden core elders will have difficulty detecting one's movements. Afterwards, as long as one doesn't run into them head-on, there's no need to worry.
既然道友已经了解了许多，那我就长话短说好了。¤Since fellow daoist already has a good understanding, I'll keep it short and sweet.
危机感从心中骤然升起，你强行退出了修炼状态，将按功法在经络中游走的灵气逼回了丹田之中。¤A sense of crisis suddenly rose up in your heart, causing you to forcefully exit your cultivation state and gather the spiritual energy that was circulating through your meridians back into your dantian according to your techniques.
不过我怀疑是二长老和三长老中有人收了好处，这才执意要促成这次联姻。如果能搜集到相关证据，就能说服大长老暂延此次婚事。等父亲出关我就不用担心被逼着与那冲虚老鬼结成道侣啦。¤However, I suspect that someone among the Second and Third Elders has received benefits and thus insisted on pushing for this marriage alliance. If we can gather relevant evidence, we can convince the Grand Elder to postpone this marriage. When my father comes out of seclusion, I won't have to worry about being forced to become the Tao companion of that old ghost of the Emptying Void.
我有些事想找你帮忙，但看你在修炼，就没好意思打搅你...¤I have a favor to ask of you, but seeing you cultivating, I didn't want to disturb you...
不必担心。大长老{color=#d0380a}通羽上人{/color}一向关爱我和姐姐，若是能找上他，只要说清缘由，料想会关照{FirstName}道友一番。所以此行的目的便是去{color=#d0380a}长老堂{/color}向大长老寻求帮助，等道友回来后，我们再做下一步计划。¤Do not worry. The grand elder {color=#d0380a}Venerable Tongyu{/color} has always cared for my sister and me. If we can find him and explain the situation, he will surely provide fellow daoist {FirstName} with assistance. Therefore, our goal for this trip is to seek help from the elder hall {color=#d0380a}Grand Elder{/color}, and once fellow daoist returns, we will make our next plan.
凭我的微末修为当然做不到...不然你在这也见不到我了...¤With my meager cultivation, of course, I couldn't do it... otherwise you wouldn't even see me here...
我怀疑二长老和三长老中有人收了好处，这才执意要促进这次联姻。如果能搜集到相关证据，就能说服大长老暂延此次婚事。等父亲出关我就不用担心被逼着与那冲虚老鬼结成道侣啦。¤I suspect that one of the second and third elders has taken bribes, which is why they are so insistent on promoting this marriage alliance. If we can gather evidence of this, we can convince the grand elder to postpone the wedding. Once my father returns, I won't have to worry about being forced to become the Dao companion of that old pervert Chongxu.
而另外两位长老，他们都肩负不同事务，不会在府中闲逛，无需担心。至于其他人，若是问起只需推诿是姐姐请你来府访问即可。¤As for the other two elders, they each have different responsibilities and won't be wandering around the mansion. There's no need to worry. As for the others, if someone asks, simply excuse yourself by saying that my sister invited you to visit the mansion.
哦？不知林姑娘有何事？¤Oh? I wonder what Lin girl needs?
哎？哎！等等！我没有恶意！¤Hey? Hey! Wait! I have no ill intentions!
本想找他帮忙的，但城内没有他的气息，应该是被倪伯父带走了。我又没有其他可以信赖的人了，只能尝试向你求助了...¤I was originally looking for his help, but I couldn't sense his presence in the city. He must have been taken away by Uncle Ni. I have no one else I can trust, so I have to turn to you for help...
细看之下，你发现眼前的女子确实与在林家见过的林沐雪有几分相似，便是放下了心中的戒备。但想起这林二小姐是从林府私逃出来的，若是跟她扯上关系，免不了有很多麻烦，又暗自多了几分防范。¤Upon closer inspection, you realize that the woman before you bears a resemblance to Lin Muxue whom you've met at the Lin Family estate. You feel relieved and lower your guard. However, as you recall that this woman is the second daughter of the Lin House who had escaped privately from the Lin Estate, you become wary of having any connections with her, as it is bound to cause a lot of trouble.
林家擅长以神识查探，对此也是极为自信，因此只要能躲过神识探查，便不用再担心其他。¤The Lin family excels in probing with their soul sense, and they are extremely confident in this ability. As long as one can avoid being detected by their soul sense, there is no need to worry about anything else.
道友可知这天星城中发生了何事才导致封城？¤Fellow Daoist, do you know what happened in Starsky City to lead to its lockdown?
危机感从心中骤然升起，你强行退出了修炼状态，此前散于四肢百骸中的灵气也尽皆收归丹田之内。¤Crisis suddenly arose in your heart, and you forcefully exited the cultivation status. All the spiritual energy scattered throughout your body was also collected back into your dantian.
让我一个{$Var}修士去面对几位金丹期的长老也太冒险了，林姑娘还是另找他人帮忙吧。¤It's too risky for me, a cultivator, to face several elders in the golden core stage. Lin girl, you should find someone else to help.
唔，怎么说比较好呢...总之就是我反对此次婚事，但有两位长老却极力促成，于是势弱的我就只好趁宾客俱在，几位长老放松戒备时逃出林府。¤Well, how should I put it... Basically, I am against this marriage, but two elders strongly pushed for it. So, being the weaker party, I took the opportunity while the guests were here and the guards were relaxed, and I escaped from the Lin House.
哼，还不是林家几位长老逼我与星宫那一脸猥琐的家伙结为道侣。于是我先是表示顺从，等到长老们放松警惕去专心接待宾客时，用族中秘宝掩盖了气息，趁机溜出林府。却不知为何在离开天星城前就被发觉。¤Hmph, it was all because the elders of the Lin family forced me to become partners with that lecherous fellow from the Star Palace. At first, I pretended to comply, and when the elders let their guard down to attend to their guests, I used a secret treasure from my family to disguise my presence and slipped out of the Lin House. However, I was discovered before I could leave Starsky City for some reason.
倪兄确实有向我介绍过。¤Brother Ni did indeed introduce me.
噢...不过我原本所求也不是出城。¤Oh...but my original goal wasn't to leave the city.
发现我跑了，他们能不急么。就只能趁我还没来得及出城去，赶紧下令封城咯。¤I ran away and of course they're worried. They can only order a lockdown before I have a chance to leave the city.
嘿嘿，这个嘛，既然找{FirstName}道友帮忙，我自然是有妙计应对。¤Hehe, since I've asked fellow daoist {FirstName} for help, I naturally have a clever plan to deal with this.
林姑娘？你不是...你在我房里干什么？¤Miss Lin? Aren't you... what are you doing in my room?
我是林家的二小姐林沐心，相信武陵城的那个傻子已经向你介绍过我了。¤I am Lin Muxin, the second young miss of the Lin family. I believe the fool from Wuling City has already introduced me to you.
睁开眼时，却看见一位女性修士正在安静的看着你。但你的神识扫过房间后却告诉你房内并没有第二个人，好似是眼前的女修只是个残影，完全没有神识波动。¤When you opened your eyes, you saw a female cultivator silently staring at you. However, when you scanned the room with your soul sense, it told you that there was no one else in the room. It seemed that the woman in front of you was just a lingering shadow, with no fluctuations in her soul sense.
但林府甚大，我又对其中结构不太熟悉，若是像头霜熊般在府内乱闯，恐怕也...¤But the Lin House is very large, and I am not very familiar with its structure. If I were to rampage through it like a frost bear, I'm afraid it would also...
确是如此，但也仅是知道林家与星宫联姻一事，至于天星城为何封城就是一概不知了。¤That's true, but we only know about the marriage alliance between the Lin family and the Star Palace. As for why Starsky City has been sealed off, we have no idea.
那我要如何帮助林姑娘呢？难不成是要带林姑娘出城去？¤Then how can I help Miss Lin? Do I need to take Miss Lin out of the city?
所以我们还是得从长计议。¤So we still need to carefully consider it.
但我现在若是出现在林府中，难免被发现，然后抓回去严加看管。所以只能拜托{FirstName}道友帮我去调查一下了。¤But if I were to appear in the Lin House now, it would be hard to avoid being discovered and then captured and closely monitored. So I can only ask fellow daoist {FirstName} to help me investigate.
只是没想到我极力掩盖行踪，还是在溜出天星城之前就被他们发现。结果你也看到了...¤I never thought that even though I tried my best to conceal my whereabouts, they still found me before I could sneak out of Starsky City. As a result, as you can see...
林沐心摆出一副楚楚可怜的样子看着你，但你却是不为所动。¤Lin Muxin puts on a pitiful expression and looks at you, but you remain unmoved.
{FirstName}道友既是与倪家那个傻子一同来林府观礼，想必对天星城发生的事有一些了解了。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, since you have come to Lin House to watch the ceremony with that fool from Ni Family, I assume you have some knowledge about what happened in Starsky City.
对方似乎是天机阁修士，见到你过来，停下来{SayStcVal=924}地看着你。你决定...{w}{w=0.5}¤The person in front of you seems to be a cultivator from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion. They stop and stare at you {SayStcVal=924}. You decide...{w}{w=0.5}
我也不是很了解附近的近况。¤I don't really know the current situation around here either.
走？{xiaozi}留下吧。¤Are you leaving, little one? Stay.
对方{SayStcVal=924}地看着你，不想与你交易，你决定离开。¤The other party {SayStcVal=924} looked at you and didn't want to trade, so you decided to leave.
道友，何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow Daoist, may I ask what brings you here? {w}{w=0.5}
对了，天机阁家大业大，这执事多半不是庸人，{xiaozi}你自己小心行事。¤By the way, Heavens Secrets Pavilion is a big household name and these stewards are probably not ordinary people, {xiaozi} you should be careful in your actions.
那就不多打扰道友了。¤In that case, I won't bother my fellow daoist any further.
你能感知到，对方是金丹后期修士。你决定...{w}{w=0.5}¤You can sense that the other person is a cultivator in the late golden core stage. You decide...{w}{w=0.5}
{xiaozi}，有事？{w}{w=0.5}¤{xiaozi}, what's up? {w}{w=0.5}
只见他，服用了数瓶丹药。¤I only saw him taking several bottles of elixir.
这天机令道友收好，道友可凭此参加我天机阁拍卖会。¤Fellow Daoist, please keep this Tianji Order. With this, you can participate in the Heaven's Secrets Pavilion Auction that we are holding.
看来，已经有人邀请过道友了，那我就不多做打扰了。¤It seems that someone has already invited a fellow daoist, so I won't disturb any further.
应该是天机阁的执事，一般是行走于世间搜集宝物与人交易。¤Should be a steward of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, usually walking around collecting treasures and conducting trades with people.
你拿出信物对他示意。¤You take out a token to signal to him.
前辈，可有吩咐？{w}{w=0.5}¤Senior, do you have any orders? {w}{w=0.5}
道友找我，还有别的事吧？¤Fellow daoist, have you come to find me for something else?
对方似乎松了一口气，小心翼翼地和你道别。¤The other party seemed to heave a sigh of relief and said goodbye to you cautiously.
对方虽有顾忌，但还是同意与你交易。¤Despite their reservations, the other party agreed to trade with you.
道友不妨前去看看，说不定大有收获。¤Fellow daoist, you might as well go and take a look. Who knows, there might be much to gain.
对方的气息远强于你，你不敢细细查探。你决定...{w}{w=0.5}¤The opponent's aura is much stronger than yours, and you dare not investigate it carefully. You decide... {w}{w=0.5}
我天机阁收集天下奇珍异宝，每10年一届，举办拍卖会。金丹期以上修士皆可参加。¤I am from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, where we collect rare treasures from all over the world. Every 10 years, we hold an auction that is open to all cultivators at the Golden Core level and above.
同时也会举办修士集会，交流修炼心得，交易物品。¤At the same time, there will also be a cultivator's assembly, exchanging cultivation insights and trading items.
(不愧是天机阁的人，还真是出手壕气啊。)¤(As expected of someone from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, they really know how to make grand gestures with their actions.)
抱歉，要事在身。¤Sorry, there is important business at hand.
哼！敢对我天机阁的人动手。¤I'm not going to fall that easily. Dare to lay a hand on someone from the heavens secrets pavilion.
道友，可听说过我天机阁拍卖会？¤Fellow daoist, have you heard of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion auction?
唉？那边是？老头你知道是谁吗？¤Hmm? Who is that over there? Old man, do you know?
走？{xiaozi}拿命来。¤Come on?{xiaozi}, risk your life.
嗯，我明白了。¤Uh, I understand.
金虹剑派掌门正要接过，却被一位身着淡金色衣袍的修士截入手中。¤The headmaster of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect was about to take it, but it was intercepted by a cultivator dressed in a light golden robe.
多谢白鹿师兄，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you, Senior Brother Bai Lu. I shall take my leave now.
多谢师祖，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you, Master. Then I'll take my leave now.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请白鹿师祖届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for his transition to ascension, and he has specifically invited the White Deer Patriarch to witness the tribulation.
{FirstName}道友，请问此番光临我派有何贵干？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, may I inquire as to the purpose of your visit to our sect?
竟是{FirstName}前辈亲自登门，请问此番有何贵干？¤Surprisingly, it's Senior {FirstName} himself who has come to visit. May I ask what brings you here?
你将请帖从储物袋中取出，随手丢向对方。后者则是恭敬地将之接在手中。¤You take the invitation out of the storage pouch and casually toss it to the other party. The latter respectfully catches it in their hand.
金虹剑派的大殿一时间陷入寂静之中。¤The hall of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect fell into silence for a moment.
眼看白鹿真人眉头紧皱，金虹掌门也不敢出声打扰，而你更是没甚么开口的必要，只是在等着他看完请帖后发话。¤As the Paragon White Deer knitted his brows and the Master of Golden Rainbow dared not interrupt, there was no need for you to speak and you simply waited for him to finish reading the invitation before speaking.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来贵派邀请白鹿道友届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for his transition to ascension and has requested that I invite Fellow Daoist White Deer to attend the ceremony at your sect.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请白鹿师兄届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing to undergo the transition to ascension, and he has specifically asked me to invite Senior Brother White Deer to attend and witness the tribulation.
见过白鹿师祖。¤I have seen Grandmaster White Deer.
此人也不言语，只是点了点头表示回复，而后便开始认真检查请帖的内容。¤This person remained silent, only nodding to indicate their response, before carefully examining the contents of the invitation.
{FirstName}师祖，今日这是...？¤Master {FirstName}, what is happening today...?
{FirstName}{shidi}，今日这是...？¤{FirstName} {shidi}, what is this today...?
多谢白鹿道友，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you, fellow daoist Bai Lu, I'll take my leave now.
多谢白鹿前辈，那我这便告辞了。¤Thank you Senior Bai Lu, I will take my leave now.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来贵派邀请白鹿前辈届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for his transition to ascension and has requested that I invite Senior White Deer to attend as a special guest of our sect to witness his tribulation.
炼丹长老能够以更低的价格在门派内购得草药资源，以精进自身丹道。¤The alchemy elder is able to purchase herbal resources within the sect at a lower price to improve their pill dao skills.
只见{$zhangmen}与各位长老们面面相觑，用不可思议的眼神看着你。¤I looked at {$zhangmen} and all the elders, who were staring at me with incredulous eyes.
只见掌门与各位长老们面面相觑，然后纷纷摇头叹息。¤I see the master and the elders looking at each other, then shaking their heads and sighing.
多谢{$zhangmen}。¤Thank you {$zhangmen}.
开辟洞府，自然是选择灵气越浓郁的地方越好，这样对未来闭关修炼时的速度大有益处。¤Opening a cave, naturally one should choose a place with denser spiritual energy, as it will greatly benefit the speed of future cultivation when closing oneself off for training.
炼丹长老负责掌管门派炼丹房，定期组织普通弟子，或是亲自为门派炼制所需的丹药。¤The alchemy elder is responsible for overseeing the alchemy room of the sect, regularly organizing ordinary disciples, or personally refining the required pills for the sect.
另外，金丹期长老就有权在我派的驻守范围内自行开辟洞府进行修炼了。¤In addition, the elders in the Golden Core stage have the right to open their own caves within our sect's territory to cultivate.
不同职位的长老职责不同，权利与俸禄也不相同，师侄可以按照自己的特长与需求进行选择。¤The duties, rights, and pay of the elders in different positions vary. Nephews can choose according to their own strengths and needs.
我派长老按职责不同，分为授业长老，外务长老，炼丹、炼器长老以及挂名长老。¤In our sect, elders are divided into different roles, such as instructor elder, exterior elder, elder for refinement and forging, honorary elder, and elder for alchemy.
授业长老需负责指点门派内门子弟，并定期举办讲法。¤The instructor elders are responsible for instructing the disciples within the sect and regularly explaining the rules.
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为授业长老恐怕不能服众。¤With your reputation in the clan, it's unlikely that you'll be able to gain the respect of everyone if you become an instructor elder.
{FirstName}师侄能够在200岁前顺利结丹，总算是渡过了这个难关。¤{FirstName}'s nephew has successfully formed his core before the age of 200, finally overcoming this hurdle.
炼器长老负责掌管门派神兵阁，定期组织普通弟子，或是亲自为门派炼制所需的法宝。¤The forging elder is responsible for overseeing the divine warrior pavilion of the sect, regularly organizing ordinary disciples, or personally refining the required artifacts for the sect.
不过若是耽误了宗门要务，你在宗门的声望也会遭受损失的。¤However, if you delay the clan's affairs, your reputation within the clan will also suffer.
这...倒也不算太糟，若是未来有些别的机缘，师侄还是有望再进一步的。¤This... isn't too bad, if there are other opportunities in the future, my nephew still has a chance to advance further.
唔...{shidi}对于炼器一道的造诣恐怕还无法胜任我派炼丹长老一职。¤Hmm... {shidi} may not be able to handle the position of our sect's alchemy elder when it comes to refining techniques.
见过{$zhangmen}。¤I have seen {$zhangmen}.
师侄这般资质，可万万不可荒废。说不定数百年后，我派又能多一个元婴实力的长老啊。¤Nephew, with such aptitude, you mustn't neglect it. Maybe in a few hundred years, our sect will have one more elder with nascent soul strength.
当然，挂名长老没有其它的实权，所能获得的俸禄也会相应的低上许多。¤Of course, the honorary elder does not have any real power, and the salary they can gain will also be significantly lower than others.
炼器长老能够以更低的价格在门派内购得各类材料，以精进自身器道。¤The forging elder is able to purchase various materials within the sect at a lower price, in order to refine their own refinery dao.
唔...{shidi}对于炼丹一道的造诣恐怕还无法胜任我派炼丹长老一职。¤Hmm...{shidi}, I'm afraid your expertise in alchemy may not be enough to qualify you for the role of our sect's alchemy elder.
你来到宗门大殿，只见门派内的诸位长老都悉数在场，{$zhangmen}站在大殿中央，正笑脸盈盈地看着你。¤You arrive at the great hall of the clan and see all the elder members of the sect present. {$zhangmen} stands in the center of the hall, smiling at you with a warm expression.
好了...该说正事了。¤Well... Let's get to business.
{FirstName}师侄虽然刚刚晋入金丹期，但对于金丹期的修炼，乃至未来结婴所需做的准备想必还是一头雾水，陌生的很吧。¤Although {FirstName}'s nephew has just advanced to the golden core stage, he is still very unfamiliar with the cultivation required for the golden core stage and even the preparations needed for the future nascent cultivation.
外务长老负责驻守门派驻地，以及外出收集门派需求的资源等等事宜。¤The exterior elder is responsible for guarding the sect's headquarters and gathering resources needed by the sect when traveling outside.
师侄你以后所若是想要担任其他长老，也可以来寻我，不过间隔时间需在50年以上。¤Nephew, if you want to become an elder in the future, you can come to me for guidance. However, the interval should be no less than 50 years.
{FirstName}师侄这般年纪还能够结丹成功，倒是大大出乎我们的预料，也算没有辜负师侄这些年来的努力。¤{FirstName}'s nephew was able to successfully reach the core formation stage at such a young age, which greatly exceeded our expectations. It is a testament to the hard work that {FirstName} has put in over the years.
哈哈哈，妙哉，妙哉。¤Hahaha, wonderful, wonderful.
授业长老能够以较低的价格在门派藏经阁内兑换各类秘籍，以提升自身修为与悟道。¤Instructor elders can exchange various secret manuals at a lower price within the hidden manual pavilion of the sect to improve their cultivation and enlightenment.
虽然杂事诸多且需及时处理，却也是门派内俸禄最高的职位。¤Although there are many miscellaneous tasks that need to be dealt with in a timely manner, it is also the highest paid position within the sect.
呵呵，我就猜到你会这么选。¤Hehe, I knew you would choose this way.
{FirstName}师侄能结成如此金丹，只要不遇到什么重大的变故，何愁大道不成啊！¤{FirstName}'s nephew has managed to form such a golden core. As long as there are no major obstacles, why worry about not reaching the dao!
不过若是{FirstName}师侄本就精通于布阵之道，以后也可以自己在洞府内布置更好的阵法。¤However, if {FirstName}'s nephew is already proficient in the art of formations, he can also arrange better arrays in the cave in the future.
只见{$zhangmen}眉头微微一皱，似乎在考虑些什么...¤I saw the leader furrow his eyebrows slightly, as if contemplating something...
以后，宗门的重要事务都会以传音符的形式发放，师侄务必记得及时查看。¤In the future, important clan matters will be communicated through sound talismans. Nephew, please remember to check them promptly.
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为外务长老恐怕不能服众。¤With your reputation in the clan, becoming an exterior elder may not be widely accepted.
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为炼丹长老恐怕不能服众。¤With your reputation within the clan, becoming an alchemy elder may not be widely accepted.
{FirstName}师侄，如今你既然已经突破金丹，自然也该成为我派长老，享受和其他金丹期长老一样的待遇。¤{FirstName} nephew, now that you have successfully broken through to the golden core stage, you should naturally become an elder of our sect and enjoy the same treatment as other golden core elders.
{FirstName}师侄修炼至今，似乎还不到150岁吧，真是前途不可限量。¤{FirstName}'s nephew has been cultivating for some time now, he's not even 150 years old yet. His future seems limitless.
{$shanming}附近{$shuxing}属性灵气丰富，很适合我派修士修炼。一会儿师侄去神兵阁领取了开辟洞府需要用到的阵旗，就可以前往{$shanming}寻觅合适的洞府地点了。¤In the vicinity of {$shanming}, the spiritual energy of the {$shuxing} attribute is abundant, making it suitable for our sect's cultivators to cultivate. Later, my nephew will go to the Divine Warrior Pavilion to collect the formation flag needed to open a cave, and then we can go to {$shanming} to find a suitable location for opening a cave.
不知...{FirstName}师侄丹成几品？¤I wonder what level of dancheng has {FirstName}'s nephew achieved?
挂名长老虽在门派内担负长老名位，但实际上没有什么俗事缠身，只是一种威慑的存在，最为自由。¤Even though the honorary elder holds the Elder title in the sect, they do not have any mundane tasks to handle in reality. They are simply an intimidating presence and enjoy the most freedom.
{FirstName}师侄所言非虚？¤Is what {FirstName}'s nephew said true?
以你在宗门的声望，若是成为炼器长老恐怕不能服众。¤With your reputation within the clan, it's doubtful that becoming a forging elder will be widely accepted.
这九品金丹可是传说中的存在，我派最近数千年来的记载中也无一人有此机缘啊。¤This nine-grade golden core is a legendary existence. In the records of my sect for the past few thousand years, no one has had such an opportunity.
若师侄在这方面有任何问题，皆可向我请教，我定倾囊相授。¤If my nephew has any questions in this regard, he can learn from me. I'm willing to share everything I know about it.
宗门炼制有一些基础的聚灵阵旗，有了这些阵旗，即便是对阵道一窍不通之人也能布下阵法。¤The clan has some basic gathering spirit array flags for refining. With these flags, even those who have no knowledge of array dao can set up an array.
可惜，可惜...但总算是突破这层难关，总好过一辈子被困在筑基。¤Unfortunately... but at least a breakthrough has been made, which is better than being stuck in foundation building forever.
{FirstName}师侄修炼至今，似乎还不到100岁吧，真是不可思议。¤{FirstName}'s nephew seems to have been cultivating for less than 100 years, which is truly unbelievable.
青玉符剑-主动：吸收1点灵气。冷却时间2回合。¤Green Jade Rune Sword Active: Absorb 1 point of spiritual energy. Cooldown time of 2 rounds.
重浪针-主动：造成2段1点水系伤害。冷却时间1回合。¤Heavy Wave Needle Active: Inflicts 2 bands of 1 point of water damage. Cooldown time of 1 turn.
可是新来的小师妹？这里有三把供新弟子挑选的法器，师妹选一柄趁手的吧。¤But what about the new junior sister? Here are three magic tools for new disciples to choose from. Junior sister, pick one that suits you.
水灵剑-主动：造成6点水系伤害。冷却时间1回合。¤Water Spirit Sword Active: Causes 6 points of water damage. Cooldown time of 1 round.
这是你的法器与道袍，千万小心别弄丢了。¤This is your magic tool and Taoist robe. Be very careful not to lose them.
你可别小看了天字杀手。¤Don't underestimate the Heaven Rank Assassin.
如此一来，或许真的有机会让他自己露出马脚...¤In this way, perhaps there is a chance for him to give himself away...
你的消息还真是灵通。¤Your information is truly well-informed.
他和你说了些什么？¤What did he say to you?
若是有了什么新的线索，及时告知我便是。¤If there's any new clue, please inform me promptly.
这样也好，否则琚运琦若是交给你什么让你难以下手的悬赏，你恐怕会陷入两难的境地。¤This is good. Otherwise, if Ju Yunqi gives you a difficult bounty to handle, you may find yourself in a dilemma.
我告诉他，滥杀无辜并非明智之举。¤I told him that killing the innocent is not a wise move.
好...说正事吧。琚运琦应该已经找过你了吧？¤Let's get to the point. Ju Yunqi probably already contacted you, right?
哈哈哈，他应该很满意这个答案。¤Hahaha, he should be very satisfied with this answer.
既然你未曾取得琚运琦的信任，那与其冒险调查打草惊蛇，倒不如静观其变。¤Since you have not gained the trust of Ju Yunqi, it's better to watch in silence rather than risk investigation that may stir up trouble.
我告诉他，只要灵石到位，杀谁都一样。¤I told him, as long as the spirit stones are in place, it doesn't matter who we kill.
依我看，他应该巴不得你对这长老会的权利毫无兴趣，做一个一心赚取灵石的杀手。¤In my opinion, he would be happy if you had no interest in the Elder Council's power and were just an assassin focused solely on earning spirit stones.
除此以外就没有别的了，我也未曾发现什么与血剑宫有关的线索。¤Apart from that, there is nothing else, and I have not discovered any clues related to the Blood Sword Palace.
据我所知，血剑宫近些年来与白帝楼多有纠葛。他们若还有什么大的动作，或许还会与琚运琦有所联系。¤As far as I know, Blood Sword Palace has had many entanglements with White Emperor Pavilion in recent years. If they have any big moves, they may have some connection with Ju Yunqi.
若说魔门的话，与古神教和天魔道有关的悬赏倒是有，与血剑宫有关的确是未曾见过。¤If we talk about the demon sect, there are bounties related to the ancient god sect and the heavenly demon cult disciple, but I've never seen anything related to the blood sword palace.
但总还是有些异常的，你在风雨楼接取了不少悬赏，可有曾发现过与血剑宫有关的悬赏？¤However, there is still something unusual. Have you ever accepted any rewards related to Blood Sword Palace while taking on missions at Storm Manor?
你成为天字杀手，对于风雨楼虽是一件大好事，但对他而言毕竟多了一些不稳定的因素。¤Becoming a heaven rank assassin is a great opportunity for you, but for the Storm Manor, it adds some unstable factors.
元婴期修士各有底牌，到了以命搏杀之时，即便修为高出一筹者也不敢说有必胜的把握，与那切磋较艺的天机大比不可同日而语。¤Each nascent soul cultivator has their own trump cards. When it comes to life-or-death battles, even those whose cultivation is higher cannot guarantee victory. It is incomparable to the Tianji Competition, where cultivators duel and compete with their heavenly machines.
后面的事我会设法调查，若有了什么新的线索，我也会及时告知于你。¤I'll try to investigate further, and if any new clues come up, I'll let you know as soon as possible.
而能够完成天阶悬赏，杀死元婴期目标的天字杀手，几乎堪称是化神之下的最强战力了。¤The ability to complete heavenly level bounties and kill nascent soul level targets is almost considered the strongest fighting force beneath the deity transformation level for the heavenly rank assassins.
{FirstName}{$daoyou}，恭喜你晋升为风雨楼天字杀手。¤{FirstName}{$daoyou}, congratulations on your promotion to the rank of Storm Manor Heaven Rank Assassin.
大名鼎鼎的{$daihao}，如今在风雨楼中可是无人不知，无人不晓了。¤The renowned {$daihao}, is now a well-known figure in Storm Manor, with no one who is unfamiliar with him.
血剑宫关系重大，琚运琦不会轻易就让别人发现明显的线索。¤The Blood Sword Palace is of great importance, and Ju Yunqi will not easily let others discover obvious clues.
但仅凭这个这也说明不了什么。¤But this alone does not prove anything.
不过如此一来，再想获取他的信任是绝无可能了...¤But with this, it is impossible to gain his trust again...
风雨楼事宜，虽说需由长老会共同决断。但如今风雨楼中，琚运琦威望最甚，大小事宜皆是他一人说了算。¤Regarding matters concerning Storm Manor, although they should be determined by the Elder Council, currently Yun Qi holds the most prestige in the manor. All important decisions are made solely by him.
他居然连此事都与你说了，看来对你已经有所信任...¤He actually told you about this matter, it seems he already trusts you...
既然你已经取得了琚运琦的信任，那与其冒险调查打草惊蛇，倒不如静观其变。¤Since you have already gained Ju Yunqi's trust, it is better to watch in silence instead of taking the risk of investigating and alerting the enemy.
你是怎么答复他的？¤What did you answer him?
以你我之间的交情，不必如此。¤With our friendship, there's no need for this.
我所结交之人中，除你以外，恐怕再找不出第二人能够做到了。这次是我欠了你一份人情。¤Among the people I have met, besides you, I am afraid that I cannot find a second person who can do this. This time, I owe you a favor.
况且本是普通散修的他，却突然富裕了起来，还结交不少好友。他确实有意无意中打听过有关倪府的消息，你这一说我就想起来了。¤Moreover, he was originally just a common wandering cultivator, but suddenly became prosperous and even made many good friends. He did intentionally or unintentionally inquire about Ni's Manor's news before, and your words just reminded me of it.
好的。\n¤Okay.
是的，每次英杰会我们都会相聚，那时我们正在喝酒，突然他面色很痛苦，也是在那时候他体内有这股气息的。¤Yes, we gather every time for the Young Hero's Tournament. We were drinking together when he suddenly looked in pain, and it was then that he exhibited this strange aura within his body.
武陵城因为英杰会是有各地修士来此，但近些时日确实是发生了一些不同寻常之事。¤Wuling City is a gathering place for cultivators from all over due to the young hero's tournament, but in recent days, some unusual things have happened.
怎么，有可疑的陌生人打听倪家和白帝楼的事？¤What's wrong? Is there a suspicious stranger inquiring about the Ni family and the White Emperor Pavilion?
我原以为他已无再进的可能，没想到今年他却突然突破至炼气巅峰，更是习得数门威力强大的法门，虽未获得魁首却也小出风头。¤I had originally thought that he had no chance of further progress, but this year he suddenly broke through to the peak of qi refining. He also gained mastery of several powerful techniques, although he did not become the leader, he still made a name for himself.
客栈掌柜眼神微微一凝，随即面色恢复正常，低声说道。¤The innkeeper's eyes narrowed slightly, but quickly recovered to a normal expression. He then spoke in a low voice.
白帝楼与倪家府邸附近总有陌生人出现，我特来调查此事。¤Near the White Emperor Pavilion and the Ni Family's residence, strange individuals often appear. I have come specifically to investigate this matter.
本来我也很替他高兴，但是今年我和他喝酒的时候，一次偶然间觉得他体内散发出某种气息，不像是正道功法。¤I was originally happy for him, but this year while we were drinking together, I accidentally sensed a certain breath emanating from him that didn't seem like it was from orthodox techniques.
唉，你来晚了，他上个月就退房离去了。¤Ah, you're too late. He moved out and ended his lease last month.
原来是白帝楼来人，不知有何吩咐？¤It turns out that someone from White Emperor Pavilion has come. May I ask what your orders are?
恰恰相反，是我熟识的一位老顾客，近来很是...¤On the contrary, he is an old regular customer that I am familiar with, who has been quite...
今年他正好39岁也是最后一次参加这个盛会了，但今年的他突破至炼气巅峰，更是习得数门威力强大的术法，虽未获得魁首却也小出风头。¤This year, at the age of 39 and attending the grand event for the last time, he broke through to the peak of qi refining. He also gained mastery of several powerful techniques, though he did not become the leader, he still managed to grab some attention.
但今年，李天对于倪家大少、家主的事格外上心，不过我们这些底层修士也没啥能告诉他的就是了。¤But this year, Li Tian is especially concerned about the matters of the Ni family's young master and the clan leader. However, we low-level cultivators don't have much information to tell him.
他现在就住在我这里...¤He's living with me right now...
他的师傅也不过是一老道士，拿到一本残缺的《吐纳功法》。和您这样的青年才俊不同，我们这种散修一般能破先天入炼气已是福缘了，像是倪家、白帝楼这种顶流修仙势力，哪是我们应该关心的？¤His master was just an old Taoist who got his hands on a damaged version of the 《exhalation technique》. Unlike talented young scholars like you, people like us wandering cultivators consider it fortunate to break through the innate and refine qi. Top-tier immortal cultivation powers like the Ni family and the 《White Emperor Pavilion》 are not something we should be concerned about.
道友，要住店么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow Daoist, do you need to stay at an inn? {w}{w=0.5}
带我去见见他吧。¤Take me to see him.
直说了吧，此人名叫李天，原是这附近的一名散修，与我有几分交情。他虽机缘巧合之下突破至炼气中期，但多次参加英杰会比试都铩羽而归。¤Just to be straightforward, this person's name is Li Tian, originally a lone cultivator from this area. We had some relation before. Although he had a stroke of luck and broke through to the mid Qi Refining stage, he failed multiple times in the Young Hero's Tournament.
而且也就如你所说，本是普通散修的他，突然富裕了起来，结交不少好友，他对于倪家和白帝楼的上心程度也太诡异了，你这一说我就想起来了。¤Moreover, as you said, he was originally just an ordinary wandering cultivator. Suddenly, he became wealthy and made many new friends. His strange level of interest in the Ni family and the White Emperor Pavilion also came to mind when you mentioned it.
直说了吧，此人名叫李天是逸风城附近的一名散修，虽机缘巧合之下突破至炼气中期，但种种原因影响已无再进的可能，前两届英杰会都是来碰碰运气，一来二去也算是我和熟识。¤Let's be frank, this person's name is Li Tian, a wandering cultivator near Yifeng City. Although he coincidentally broke through to mid qi refining stage, due to various reasons, there is no possibility of further progress. He participated in the previous two Young Hero's Tournaments to test his luck and we are familiar with each other.
海上奇遇事件测试¤Testing a Sea Adventure Encounter
这培元丹炼制时可用{color=#d0380a}天青花{/color}替代{color=#d0380a}轻灵草{/color}，但需要换一味药引来中和药性......¤During the refining of the Lesser Healing Pill, the Azuresky Flower can be used instead of the Windborn Palm, but a different medicinal herb must be used to neutralize its properties...
草药还没找回来吗？¤Have the herbs not been found yet?
对了，我炼制的凝神丹还需{color=#d0380a}轻灵草{/color}、{color=#d0380a}天青花{/color}两味草药，麻烦{shidi}多走一趟了。¤By the way, the Mind Clearing Pill that I refined requires two types of herbs: Windborn Palm and Azuresky Flower. Please {shidi}, could you make another trip to gather them for me?
唉，这家伙丹不炼成不出炼丹房，麻烦{shidi}帮个忙让他赶快炼好丹从我这儿出去吧......¤Ah, this guy won't leave the dan room until he successfully refines the elixir. Would you mind helping me out, {shidi}, to get him to finish refining the elixir and leave from here as soon as possible...
多谢{shidi}的几次相助，这是我研究出的丹方，你拿去研究吧。¤Thank you {shidi} for your help a few times. This is the recipe I have researched, you can study it.
徐凡接过草药便丢进了丹炉，露出了如释重负的笑容。¤Xu Fan took the herbs and threw them into the alchemy furnace, relieved, with a smile on his face.
那便有劳{shidi}了。¤Then I will trouble you, {shidi}.
徐凡守着炼丹炉，口中喃喃自语。¤Xu Fan guards the alchemy furnace, muttering to himself.
去去去，没事别打扰我炼药。¤Go away, don't bother me while I'm refining medicine.
你是新来的{shidi}？麻烦你帮忙找来{color=#d0380a}夜交藤{/color}和{color=#d0380a}天青花{/color}吧，我正在炼丹一时走不开。¤Are you a new {shidi}? Could you please help me find some {color=#d0380a}nightryst vine{/color} and {color=#d0380a}azuresky flower{/color}? I am currently practicing alchemy and can't leave at the moment.
多谢{shidi}。实不相瞒我准备将这些丹药送予一位朋友，女性修士想来更喜欢驻颜丹多些。¤Thank you {shidi}. To be honest, I plan to give these pills to a friend. Female cultivators seem to prefer beauty enhancing pills like these more.
劳烦{shidi}最后帮我寻{color=#d0380a}玄冰花{/color}回来吧。¤{shidi}, could you please help me find the {color=#d0380a}clearfrost petal{/color} for me?
{xiaozi}，要什么就交钱，别瞎打探。¤{xiaozi}, pay up if you want something, don't snoop around.
{shidi}，门派大比就要开始了，快来登记吧。{w}{w=0.5}¤{shidi}, the sect competition is about to begin, hurry up and register. {w}{w=0.5}
天衍阁是我天机阁售卖情报玉简之所道友要事有兴趣探探秘境，不凡去看看。¤Heavenly Derivative Pavilion is where we sell intelligence jades for interested fellow daoists to explore and uncover secrets. It is worth a visit for the extraordinary.
呼，这离火门卧虎藏龙，我还是先离开吧。¤Phew, the Fire Gate Sect is home to many hidden dragons and crouching tigers. I should leave first.
把这老头打晕再悄悄溜进去，速度得快一些以免他上告宗门......¤Knock out this old man, sneak in quietly, and do it quickly to avoid him reporting to the clan...
罢了，此次不伤你这{xiaozi}的性命，日后切莫再犯。¤Okay, I won't harm your life this time, {xiaozi}. Don't make the same mistake again in the future.
今天就到此为止，去告诉赤发鬼 ，这些人的魂魄我们就收下了，桀桀桀桀桀...¤We'll stop here for today, go tell the Red-Haired Ghost that we've collected the souls of these people. Kekekeke...
他奶奶的，哪里冒出来的{xiaozi}。¤Damn it, where did this kid come from.
桀桀桀桀，你今天表现的不错，以后你就算我们禾山道的人了，等回了山寨，少不了你的奖赏。¤Hehehe, you did well today. From now on, you'll be considered one of us from Mt. Harvest Sect. When we return to the mountain stronghold, you'll receive your rewards for sure.
不打了不打了...打跑一个又来一个，真是没完没了...¤I'm not fighting anymore... Every time I chase one away, another one comes. It's truly endless...
妈的，快...快去叫人！¤Damn it, hurry...hurry and call for help!
你别看掌门师尊和几位长老们平时嘴上不说，但心里对这些虚名还是有几分看重的。{shidi}若是能在猎魔试炼中表现出色，说不定还能得到掌门师尊的嘉奖呢。¤Don't underestimate the importance the Master and several Elders place on these titles, even if they don't say it out loud. If {shidi} can perform well in the Demon-Hunting Trial, perhaps they can even receive praise from the Master.
那是自然，上一届的猎魔试炼便是由我带着其他筑基期的师兄妹们一起参加的。¤That is natural. I was the one who led the other senior brothers and sisters in the foundation establishment stage to participate in the last demon hunting trial.
这灵核这是各大门派争夺的一种重要资源，我们竹山宗也不例外。所以你收集到的所有灵核都可以在宗门内部换取其它你需要的东西。¤This spiritual core is an important resource that all the sects compete for. Bamboo Mountain Sect is no exception. So all the spiritual cores you collect can be exchanged for other things you need within the sect.
虽然我们竹山宗最后取得的名次不佳，但好在那次还没有人在里面丧命。¤Although our Bamboo Mountain Sect didn't rank well in the end, luckily no one died during that time.
你将{color=#d0380a}灵气消散的飞剑{/color}交给大师兄，并将自己在路上遭到剑灵袭击的事悉数告知。¤You hand over the flying sword that had its spiritual energy dispersed to your senior brother, and inform him of the attack by the sword spirit that you encountered on the way.
此次能战胜地魔你功不可没，不愧是我竹山宗弟子！¤Your contribution in defeating the earth demon should not be overlooked, you are truly a worthy disciple of the Bamboo Mountain Sect.
哎快来快来，那个师弟就是......（低声耳语）¤Hey, come over here quickly. That junior disciple is... (whispers)
{shidi}伤势可痊愈了？若有不适还是回洞府多加修养，以免落下后患。¤{shidi}, have your injuries healed completely? If you still feel discomfort, it's better to return to the cave for further cultivation to avoid any future troubles.
魔门沉寂千年，只怕这次假借二弟之手取回戮仙剑的计划只是一个开端。¤The Magic Sect has been silent for a thousand years, and I'm afraid that the plan to retrieve the Immortal Executing Sword using the second brother's hand is just the beginning.
一切安好，不知倪家主近期如何？¤All is well, I wonder how the master of the Ni family has been recently?
我知道你心中定有很多未解之惑，若有什么想知晓的来问我便是。¤I know you have many unresolved questions in your heart. If there is something you want to know, just ask me.
这宁州古迹虽隐迹于时空狭缝中，但每隔一千五百年左右便会在宁州出现，某些资质泛泛者可能终其一生都没有机会触摸到宁州古迹的大门。细细算来，大概{$TempValue}年后宁州古迹便会开启了。¤Although the Ningzhou ancient ruin is hidden in a narrow gap of time and space, it appears in Ningzhou about once every 1,500 years. Some with mediocre aptitude may never have the chance to touch the gates of the Ningzhou ancient ruin in their entire life. If we calculate carefully, the Ningzhou ancient ruin will likely open in {$TempValue} years.
宁州古迹乃是上古时期大战后形成的战场残骸，因聚集的灵力过多造成了空间扭曲而鲜少现世，只有其灵力波动与大陆达成一致时才会在化尘教以北的荒漠中出现。¤The ancient ruins of Ning Province are the remnants of a battlefield formed after a great ancient war. Due to the overwhelming amount of spiritual power gathered, the space became distorted and rarely appears in the present world. It only manifests in the desert north of the Shifting Sand Sect when its spiritual energy fluctuations align with those of the continent.
二弟他本性忠厚纯良，这次不知怎的中了古神教的阴谋诡计。倪府众人已把控住他，并押送至秘境治疗。¤The second younger brother has a loyal and honest nature, but he fell victim to the schemes of the Ancient God Sect this time. The people of Ni's Manor have already captured him and sent him to the secret realm for treatment.
不过也不见得那掌门修习了魔门功法才如此猖狂...或许问题出现在剑身上。¤However, it's not necessarily that the master has practiced dark techniques to act so arrogantly... perhaps the problem lies with the sword itself.
我观{FirstName}小友心性可嘉，多年过去不受杂念侵扰，道心仍如初到武陵城那般坚定，很好，很好。希望你勿失本心，早日领悟道之法门。¤I observe that {FirstName}, my young friend, possesses admirable character and has not been disturbed by distracting thoughts for many years. Your enlightenment remains steadfast, just as when you first arrived in Wuling City. That is very good, very good. I hope you will not lose sight of your original intentions and quickly comprehend the path to enlightenment.
御剑门...让我想想......可是九嶷山之上的那个御剑门？¤Imperial Sword Sect...let me think...but is it the Imperial Sword Sect that's on top of Jiuyi Mountain?
希望长老及供奉能够尽快祛除二弟体内的魔蛊，让他恢复本心。¤I hope that the elder and guest elders can quickly eliminate the demonic gu in the second young master's body, allowing him to recover his true self.
{FirstName}小友别来无恙？¤Hello {FirstName}, my young friend, how have you been?
这处独立的小空间便是所谓的宁州古迹...后来宁州修士倾尽人力几经搜罗，几次进入古迹搜索，才觅得戮仙剑，交由武陵城中的白帝保管。而绝仙剑被魔修找回，诛仙剑与陷仙剑则下落不明。¤This independent small space is what is known as the Ning Province Ancient Ruin... Later, the cultivators of Ning Province exhausted all their efforts to search through the ancient ruins several times and finally found the Immortal Executing Sword, which was entrusted to the White Emperor in Wuling City. The Immortal Severing Sword was retrieved by a demonic cultivator, while the whereabouts of the Sword of Immortality and the Immortal Sword remain unknown.
倪家主沉吟片刻，像是在组织语言。¤The head of the Ni family pondered for a moment, as if organizing his thoughts.
我倪氏一族曾揣测这四把魔剑绝非凡物，心智不坚定之人会受其内魔气侵蚀，逐步堕入魔道。¤My Ni family once speculated that these four demon swords were not ordinary objects. Those with weak wills would be affected by the magic qi within them and gradually fall into the demonic path.
剑......？¤Sword...?
万年前在宁州的那场正魔大战，当年的金虹剑派掌门凭借独到的剑意强行破阵，甚至破开了位面屏障，将整个区域卷入了另外一处小空间，四把魔剑也就此下落不明。¤In a battle between righteousness and evil that took place in Ningzhou thousands of years ago, the headmaster of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, using his unique sword intent, forcibly broke through the formation and even shattered the dimensional shield, dragging the entire area into another small space. As a result, four demon swords disappeared without a trace.
提起戮仙剑，就不得不说诛仙剑阵。此剑阵威力无穷，变幻莫测，阵法内幻境法术虚实相生，令入阵者心神动摇，若修为不足便会当场殒命。¤When the Immortal Executing Sword is mentioned, the Immortal Slaying Sword Array must also be noted. This sword array possesses boundless power and is unpredictable. Within the array, the Illusionary Realm spell and Phasing complement each other, making the minds of those inside the array tremble. If their cultivation is insufficient, they may perish right on the spot.
多谢倪家主。说来有件事在下十分在意，家主方才所言中的宁州古迹为何地？¤Thank you, Lord Ni. There is something I am very concerned about. Where exactly is the Ning Province ancient ruin that you mentioned earlier?
据说御剑门掌门也是个惊艳绝伦的人物，可惜与魔门勾结落了个死无全尸的下场。¤It is said that the master of the Imperial Sword Sect was also an outstanding figure, but unfortunately he conspired with the Demon Sect and met a tragic end without a complete body.
这诛仙剑阵由四把魔剑构成，戮仙剑便是其中一把。其余则分别为诛仙剑。绝仙剑和陷仙剑。此四把剑各有所长，以任何一柄作为阵眼，皆可发挥不同妙用。¤This Immortal Slaying Sword Array is composed of four demon swords, with the Immortal Executing Sword being one of them. The others are respectively the Immortal Severing Sword, Sword of Immortality, and Immortal Sword Array. Each of these four swords has its own strengths, and any one can serve as the focal point to exhibit different abilities.
按往年的记录，这薄弱之处往往会出现在{color=#d0380a}岫络谷{/color}的附近，到时仅需靠金丹期修为便可打开通道，进入宁州古迹所在的那片空间。¤According to previous records, this weakness usually occurs near Cui Luo Valley. At that time, only those with Golden Core cultivation can open the passage and enter the space where the Ning Province Ancient Ruin is located.
宁州古迹中法宝灵器随处可见，除此之外，上古时期的大能也在其中留下了不少传承。历年来能够在其中获得传承的修士无一例外，皆成就造化，距化神一步之遥！¤In the ancient ruins of Ning Province, artifacts and spiritual treasures are everywhere to be seen. Apart from these, many legacies were also left behind by the great powers of ancient times. Over the years, every cultivator who has gained a legacy here has without exception achieved great success, coming just one step away from deity transformation!
可以说只要获得宁州古迹中的传承，便打开了通往化神期的大门。不过在这古迹中传承多处于凶险之地，像是器灵纷杂的战场，灵力汹涌的深谷，凶兽遍地的密林...而且这些大能性格古怪，即使有幸寻得传承之地，也不知会面临怎样的考验。¤It can be said that as long as one gains the inheritance within the ancient ruins of Ningzhou, they will open the door to the void transformation stage. However, many of these inheritances are located in dangerous territories such as battlefields littered with spirit artifacts, deep valleys full of surging spiritual power, and dense forests populated by fierce beasts… Moreover, these powerful beings have strange personalities, so even if one is fortunate enough to find the location of the inheritance, they may not know what kind of trials they will face.
我省得了，多谢倪家主的提点。¤I understand, thank you Ni Family Head for the guidance.
多亏小友的天蝉灵叶，想必再有几日我便能恢复如初。¤Thanks to the young friend's Skyscada leaf, I should be able to recover in a few more days and return to my former self.
正是，御剑门掌门曾在千年前的宁州古迹中误打误撞得到了一柄魔剑。他性格本就桀骜乖张，得了通天灵宝后愈发目中无人。与他知交的时任金虹剑派掌门闻讯前去劝说他，反倒被打出了九嶷山。¤It was precisely the case that the imperial sword sect headmaster stumbled upon a demon sword by accident in the ancient ruins of Ning province one thousand years ago. He was already a rebellious character by nature, and after obtaining the spiritual treasures, he became even more insolent towards others. When the current radiant sword sect headmaster, who was his friend, heard the news and went to persuade him, he was instead expelled from Jiuyi Mountain.
宁州古迹看似是难得一见的福缘之地，但其中隐藏的危险与杀机足以令人万劫不复。机遇总是与风险并行，日后如有机会前往古迹，{FirstName}小友定要牢记这句话。¤The ancient ruins of Ning Province seem to be a rare opportunity, but the hidden dangers and murderous intent within are enough to leave one beyond redemption. Opportunities always come with risks, so if {FirstName} has the chance to go to the ruins in the future, they must keep this in mind, young friend.
你悄悄地打量着倪家主，他略显苍白的面庞上仍旧带着威不可侵的气势。看来倪府供奉们颇有手段，短短数十日时间便将倪家主的病象拔除干净。¤You secretly observe the main figure of Ni Family, his slightly pale face still exuding an inviolable atmosphere. It seems that the Guest Elders of Ni's Manor have the means, as they were able to completely remove the signs of illness from the head of the Ni Family in just a few tens of days.
自那以后，御剑门掌门性情大变，好杀喜伐。几大门派联手打探后终于确信御剑门掌门已弃明投暗，魔功大成，才有了后续剿灭御剑门之事。而那魔剑也随着御剑门掌门的陨落不知所踪。¤Since then, the master of the Imperial Sword Sect has become extremely bloodthirsty and enjoys killing. After several sects joined forces to investigate, they finally confirmed that the master had abandoned the righteous path for dark powers and had achieved great demonic cultivation. This led to the subsequent elimination of the Imperial Sword Sect. As for the demon sword, its whereabouts remain unknown after the fall of the sect.
上古时期，宁州古迹也算是一座较为繁荣的城池。后因成为正魔大战的主战场而衰败，整座城池也由于巨大的灵力引起空间塌陷，落入了时空乱流中。¤During ancient times, Ning Province Ancient Ruin was considered a prosperous city. However, it later declined due to becoming the main battlefield of the war between the righteous and the demonic forces. The entire city was also drawn into a spatial collapse caused by immense spiritual power, falling into a chaotic flow of time and space.
这宁州古迹虽隐迹于时空狭缝中，但每隔千年左右便会在宁州的岫络谷附近出现，某些资质泛泛者可能终其一生都没有机会触摸到宁州古迹的大门。细细算来，大概{$TempValue}年后宁州古迹便会开启了。¤Although hidden in the narrow cracks of time and space, this ancient ruin of Ning Province will appear near the Cui Luo Valley in Ningzhou every few thousand years. Some with mediocre aptitude may never have the chance to touch the gates of the ancient ruin. It is estimated that the ancient ruin of Ning Province will open in {$TempValue} years.
今日多有叨扰，待家主痊愈之后我必定再来拜访。¤Thank you for today's trouble. I'll definitely come visit again after the master of the house has recovered.
怎么又是你？¤Why is it you again?
{/t}额...先说一下，老夫我这相术可是祖师真传，所以看一次，要收你100块灵石。{/t}¤Ahem... First of all, let me tell you that my divination skills are true teachings passed down from my ancestors. So if you want me to take a look, it'll cost you 100 spirit stones.
我看道友这一身修为，应是拜入了离火门的师门，老夫说的可对？¤I see, fellow daoist, that your cultivation is profound. It seems you have joined the Fire Gate Sect, am I correct? 
只见他拿出一片翠绿色的残玉，神秘兮兮的拿给你看。¤You see him take out a piece of jade green leftover jade, and mysteriously show it to you.
道友不信也是正常，不过这玉佩可不是凡物，道友不妨亲自试试，用全力攻击这块残片，它定不会有任何损伤。¤Fellow daoist, it's normal to have doubts, but this jade pendant is no ordinary object. Why don't you try attacking this fragment with all your might? It will not be damaged in the slightest.
等等...这碎片倒是与上次在御剑门遗迹中捡到的那片有几分相像，没准还真属于同一块玉佩。¤Wait...this fragment is somewhat similar to the one we found in the ruins of the Imperial Sword Sect last time. It might actually belong to the same jade pendant.
那...那这次姑且就再信你一次。按你说的，2000灵石，这块玉佩残片就归我了。¤Well... I'll trust you one more time. According to what you said, 2000 spirit stones, and this jade pendant fragment will be mine.
哼，那我便试上一试。¤Hmph, then I'll give it a try.
咳咳...原来是这位道友，哈哈。¤*Cough*... so it turns out to be my fellow daoist, haha.
我看道友这一身修为，应是拜入了竹山宗的师门，老夫说的可对？¤I see that fellow daoist's cultivation level is impressive. Did you join the Bamboo Mountain Sect as your master's disciple? Am I right?
不管是不是钥匙，但定然不是凡物，也算值得一试。¤Whether it is a key or not, it is definitely not an ordinary object, and it is worth a try.
这个，老夫突然想起来还有些别的事要处理，就先走一步了，咱们有缘再见。¤This, this old man suddenly remembered that there are some other matters to attend to. I will leave now. If we have fate, we will meet again.
嗯...道友如今应是{$nianling}岁，修炼了{$year}年有余，修为刚到{$xiuwei}，对否？¤Well... Fellow Daoist, you should be around {$nianling} years old now, having cultivated for more than {$year} years, and recently reached the level of {$xiuwei} in cultivation, am I right?
诸位过往道友，本仙人得祖师真传，预知前程，能断后世，且来看上一卦啊。¤Fellow daoists who have come before, this immortal has inherited the true teachings of my ancestor and is able to foresee the future and make predictions for the later generations. Let's take a look at the hexagram.
什么有事要处理，我看你分明是见到我心虚想走。¤What business do you have to attend to? I clearly see that you are feeling guilty and want to leave when you see me.
顺为凡，逆为仙...¤Ascent is for mortals, descent is for immortals…
噢？原来是这位道友，老夫对你可是印象深刻啊。¤Oh? So it's you, fellow daoist. I do have a deep impression of you.
即便你说的是真的，如果找不到洞府的具体位置，就算收集齐了这些碎片又有何用？¤Even if what you say is true, what use is it to collect these fragments if we cannot locate the specific cave?
千年前宁州曾出过一赫赫有名的元婴期散仙，唤作涵虚仙人。此人不知用何法门，活了快两千年，一身修为通天，据说同境界之下罕有敌手。¤A thousand years ago in Ningzhou, there was a renowned Nascent Soul stage Loose Immortal named Han Xu Xianren. It's unclear what secret method he used, but he lived for nearly two thousand years and had a cultivation level that was unmatched by few in his realm.
这位道友，老夫看你乌云盖顶，印堂发黑，面有死气，似有大凶之灾啊，不如请到一边，待我为你看上一相，如何？¤Fellow Daoist, I observe that you have a gloomy and foreboding appearance. Your forehead is clouded and your face is lifeless, as if a great disaster is about to befall you. Why don't you come aside and let me examine your fate?
等等...这碎片虽然看起来普通，但上面雕刻的图案纹样倒是让我有一种莫名熟悉的感觉，可能真有什么玄机也未可知。¤Wait... Although this fragment looks ordinary, the pattern carved on it makes me feel strangely well-known. It is possible that there is some mystery behind it that is yet to be uncovered.
我看道友这一身修为，应是拜入了星河剑派的师门，老夫说的可对？¤I see that fellow daoist's cultivation is quite profound. It seems that they have joined the Celestial River Sword Sect. Am I correct in saying so?
你不会是想说，这破碎片就是那元婴大能洞府的钥匙吧？¤Are you suggesting that this broken piece is the key to the Nascent Soul Grandmaster's Cave?
我看道友这一身修为，应是拜入了金虹剑派的师门，老夫说的可对？¤I see that my fellow daoist's cultivation is quite impressive. Did you perhaps join the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect? Am I correct in saying this?
（不会吧，难道这碎片还真是那什么涵虚仙人洞府的钥匙？）¤(Could it be true? Is this fragment really the key to the Xianman Cave of that Xianren named Hanxu?)
谁知道这是不是你哪里捡来的垃圾，我有那么好骗么？¤Who knows if this is garbage you picked up somewhere, am I so easy to fool?
他在渡劫前曾放出消息，将他洞府的“钥匙”分成数份，分散到了各处。凡是能将这些钥匙的碎片拼凑完整者，就能打开他的洞府，得到他的传承。¤Before his tribulation, he released news that the key to his cave was divided into several parts and scattered all over. Anyone who can combine these key fragments together can open his cave and obtain his inheritance.
哈哈哈，道友猜得不错！这便是那把钥匙的碎片之一，老夫我也是在一次机缘巧合之下偶然所得啊。可惜这么多年过去了，也没有得到有关其他碎片的消息，索性今日就当赐你一份机缘，2000灵石卖给你了。¤Ha ha ha, fellow daoist guessed right! This is one of the fragments of the key, which I also obtained by chance during an opportunity. Unfortunately, after so many years have passed, I still haven't received any news about the other fragments. So today, I'll consider it a blessing to give you this opportunity and sell it to you for 2000 spirit stones.
不如这样，道友只需出上500灵石，这次我便帮道友好好算上一卦，保管灵验，如何？¤How about this, fellow daoist only needs to offer 500 spirit stones, then I'll help you calculate a good hexagram. It's guaranteed to be effective, how about it?
你若有所思的念叨了几句，再抬起头的时候，发现那名老道不知何时已经走远了...¤If you pondered for a few moments, and when you lifted your head, you found that the old Taoist had already walked far away…
额...就这点儿？¤Uh... Is that all?
道友，你这命理倒是十分诡异，难以测算。不过依老夫看，你虽命中多劫难，但只需始终坚守着自己的一份道心，最终便能逢凶化吉啊。¤Fellow daoist, your fortune is very mysterious and difficult to calculate. However, in my opinion, although you may encounter many trials and tribulations in your fate, as long as you always uphold your own path, you will eventually be able to turn misfortune into blessing.
站住！¤Stop!
我看道友还未曾拜入宁州大派，至今还是一介散修，老夫说的可对？¤I see that Fellow Daoist has yet to join the major sect in Ningzhou and is still just a lone cultivator. Am I correct?
咳咳，道友莫急，老夫这门祖传的相术，上可看往生，下可算后世。这往生皆已是定数，自然好看，但后世乃未定之数，可没有那么容易。¤Cough cough, fellow daoist, don't be impatient. My family's inherited fortune-telling skills can see into the afterlife and calculate future generations. Seeing into the afterlife is already predetermined, so it's naturally easier to read. But calculating future generations involves the unpredictable, so it's not as easy.
怎么样，老夫所言非虚吧。¤How about it, what I said wasn't untrue, right?
据老夫猜测，一旦将玉佩拼凑完整，就能够通过玉佩感知到洞府的大概位置了。¤According to my speculation, once the jade pendant is complete, it should be possible to sense the approximate location of the cave through the jade pendant.
咳咳...这样吧，你我二人也算有缘，今日竟然又遇见了，老夫便赐你一个机缘，过去的事情就莫要再提了。¤Cough cough... Alright, you and I are fated to meet again today. I'll grant you an opportunity, but let's not bring up the past anymore.
道友的命理粗看杂乱无章，多有险阻。但所谓顺为凡，逆为仙，修真本就是逆天而为，命数不由天定。道友的曙光或许就在历经磨难，破棘而出的那一刻。¤Fellow daoist's destiny may seem disordered and full of obstacles at first glance, but as the saying goes, what is easy for mortals is difficult for immortals. Cultivators aim to go against the natural order of things, and one's fate is not predetermined by heaven. Perhaps fellow daoist's breakthrough and enlightenment lies in overcoming hardships and emerging victorious.
罢了罢了，你有多少灵石就出多少灵石吧。¤Never mind, just use as many spirit stones as you have.
若非老夫年事已高，恐怕时日无多，也不会甘心把这份机缘让给他人...哎...你拿去吧。¤If it weren't for my old age and limited time left, I wouldn't be willing to let this opportunity fall into someone else's hands...sigh...take it.
你看，这是什么？¤Look, what is this?
你这所谓的算卦之术，最多不过是一些能辨人年龄修为的小法门。至于算往生，定来世，就完全只是说一些套话来糊弄人罢了。¤Your so-called divination skills are nothing more than some small tricks that can discern a person's age and cultivation level. As for predicting one's rebirth and future, it's just a bunch of clichés to fool people.
他一边说着，又要往客栈外走去...¤As he spoke, he started to walk towards the inn...
法宝有灵，这玉佩既然是洞府开关的钥匙，想必和洞府间必然有着深刻的联系。否则当年涵虚仙人也不会放出消息，让大家收集玉佩残片。¤The artifact is alive and since this jade pendant is the key to the cave, it must have a deep connection with the cave. Otherwise, Immortal Hanxu would not have released the news to collect the fragments of the jade pendant.
道友命理诡异，却又能频频逢凶化吉，实乃老夫生平罕见。¤Fellow daoist's destiny is mysterious and strange, yet they are able to turn bad luck into good luck frequently, which is rarely seen in my lifetime.
倒有几分眼力，不过你能不能说些有意义的？¤You do have some eyesight, but can you say something meaningful?
我看道友这一身修为，应是拜入了化尘教的师门，老夫说的可对？¤I see fellow daoist's cultivation level, it seems you have entered the Shifting Sand Sect as a disciple. Am I correct?
怎么又是你这个骗子，你是不是对每个人都说一样的话？¤Why is it you again, you swindler? Do you say the same thing to everyone?
啧啧啧，道友面露煞气，想必也是个杀伐果决之人呐。只是这修仙一途，虽是逆天改命，但这逆天之事行的越多，日后受天道考验之时也越是凶险，道友当慎重而为啊。¤Tsk tsk tsk, fellow daoist, you seem to be radiating an aura of killing intent. Surely, you must be a person who is decisive in battle. However, in the path of cultivation, although it can reverse one's fate and defy the heavens, the more one goes against the natural order, the more dangerous it becomes when facing the heavenly tribulations in the future. Fellow daoist, please be cautious and careful in your actions.
要不就把你之前骗我的灵石还给我，不然我就在这里当众揭穿你的骗术。¤Either give me back the spirit stones that you cheated me out of earlier, or I'll expose your scam in front of everyone here.
你聚集灵气，朝那枚碎片狠狠刺去，只见一道蓝光一闪，刚刚的攻击竟消失的无影无踪，碎片果然完好无损。¤You gather spiritual energy and strike fiercely towards the fragment. A blue light flashes and the previous attack disappears without a trace. As expected, the fragment remains untouched.
见过掌门。¤I have seen the master.
{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}，这次我派能够复原失传多年的《真元玄典》，并收入秘阁，多亏了你在宁州古迹中找到的残本。¤{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}, this time our sect is able to restore the lost 《true element's annals》 that have been missing for many years and store it in the secret pavilion, all thanks to the incomplete copy you found in the Ning Province ancient ruins.
这次请师祖回来，正是为了亲手把这复原的《真元玄典》交予您手中。¤This time, I have invited the master to return so that I can personally hand over the restored 《True Element's Annals》 to you.
我竹山宗于数万年前创立时，能够在宁州扎稳脚根，靠的便是这《真元玄典》。我派后续的诸多功法，法门，也皆以此心法为基础所创。¤When my Bamboo Mountain Sect was founded tens of thousands of years ago, we were able to establish ourselves firmly in Ningzhou thanks to the True Element's Annals. All the subsequent techniques and teachings of my sect have been created on the foundation of this technique. 《》
多谢掌门。¤Thank you, Master.
好，你们辛苦了。¤Okay, you guys have worked hard.
这次让{$TmpTalkString}回来，正是为了亲手把这复原的《真元玄典》交予你手中。希望你能好生研习，将此功法传承下去。¤This time, {$TmpTalkString} has returned, just to personally hand over the restored 《True Element's Annals》 into your hands. I hope that you can study it well and pass down this technique.
师弟，据说你和诸位长老已将《真元玄典》复原完毕？¤Junior, it is said that you and the elders have finished restoring the 《True Element's Annals》?
正是。这次我派能够复原失传多年的《真元玄典》，并收入秘阁，多亏了师祖当年在宁州古迹中找到的残本。¤It is true. This time, I am able to restore the lost 《true element's annals》 that have been missing for many years and have them kept in the secret pavilion. This is all thanks to the fragment that our ancestor found in the ancient ruins of Ning Province.
身后的铁剑应声安定下来，眼前的景色变换，你从血色的幻象之中脱离出来，惊魂未定地喘着粗气...¤The iron sword behind you settles down with a sound, the scenery in front of you changes, and you escape from the illusion of blood, gasping for breath with a frightened heart...
玄骨老祖阴鸷的双眸冷冷地扫过人群，最终紧紧黏着在你的身上，你与他的目光稍一接触，身后的铁剑便无可抑制地抖动起来。¤The cold and gloomy gaze of Patriarch Dark Bones swept over the crowd, finally sticking onto you. As soon as your eyes met, the iron sword behind you began to uncontrollably tremble.
{color=#d0380a}诛仙剑{/color}...你是说？¤{color=#d0380a}Immortal Sword{/color}...what do you mean?
伴随戮仙剑的消失，大殿中的煞气也逐渐变得稀薄起来。但宁州古迹本就处于不稳定的位面中，古神教护法的一剑更是令此地雪上加霜，巨大的引力似乎要将所有人抽入虚空之中。¤As the Immortal Executing Sword disappeared, the malevolent aura in the hall gradually became thinner. However, the Ningzhou ancient ruin was already in an unstable dimensional space, and the Ancient God Sect Guardian's sword strike made things even worse. The immense gravity seemed to pull everyone into the void.
双目变得通红，你仿佛突然置身于一片血海之中，无数的尸骨从你身边飘过。尽管你道心坚定，也不由的感到惊骇，下意识地向后退了一步。¤Your eyes turned red, as if you were suddenly immersed in a sea of blood, with countless bones floating by your side. Even though you had a firm heart, you couldn't help but feel horrified, instinctively taking a step back.
诛仙剑与戮仙剑之间互有感应，那玄骨恐怕已经顺着这股气息发现了你。¤The Immortal Sword and the Immortal Executing Sword have a mutual connection, and the Xuan Bone in your body may have already sensed your presence through this aura.
不好，这片位面快要崩塌了，快走！¤Not good, this plane is about to collapse, hurry up and leave!
大家先离开这座地宫，到空间相对平稳的地方去！¤Everyone leave this underground palace first and go to a place where the space is relatively stable!
想来那幽绿的火芒定是某种能够让人在空间裂隙中穿梭的神通，你们虽想追击却也无可奈何。¤It is likely that the ethereal green flames are a type of divine skill that allows one to travel through space rifts. Although you may want to chase after me, you are powerless to do so.
戮仙剑剑刃所过之处，一道宽阔的空间裂隙如放大的眼眸般睥睨着你们，其中传来的强大吸力甚至令弥漫的煞气也减淡了几分。¤As the blade of the immortal executing sword swept through, a wide space rift opened up before you, its gaze magnified like a pair of eyes. The powerful suction emanating from it even caused the thick miasma to dissipate slightly.
魏无极目光严肃地盯着玄骨老人，你竟少有地从他的眼神中看到一丝担忧。¤Wei Wuji's gaze was sternly fixed on the old man Xuan Gu. It was rare to see even a hint of worry in his eyes.
具体的情况等离开这里以后再说，这玄骨老祖凭戮仙剑之威劈开了空间，这片小位面很快就要崩塌了，必须尽快离开这里！¤The specific situation can be discussed after leaving this place. Patriarch Dark Bones used the power of the Immortal Executing Sword to split open the space. This small plane is about to collapse and we must leave here as soon as possible.
魏老...这，这是怎么回事？¤Wei Lao... what, what happened?
那玄骨道人瞥了你一眼，咧嘴一笑。幽绿的光芒突然自戮仙剑燃起，迅速地烧至古神教护法全身，他头也不回地大步跨进那道庞巨的空间裂隙中。¤The Xuan bone cultivator glanced at you and grinned. Suddenly, a dark green light ignited from the Immortal-executing Sword, quickly burning the Ancient God Sect Guardian's body. Without looking back, he stepped boldly into the massive Space Rift.
定！¤Ding!
不过除了这些人，你还见到了两个熟悉的面孔，他们匆匆赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤However, besides these people, you also saw two familiar faces. They hurried over to a spot near you to watch the ceremony.
你腾空而起，四下观瞧，在附近的岛屿上找了一处开阔的空地准备迎接天劫。¤You soar into the air and look around, searching for a spacious open space on the nearby islands in preparation for welcoming the heavenly tribulation.
不过除了这些人，你还见到了一个熟悉的面孔，他匆匆赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤However, aside from these people, you also saw a familiar face rushing over to watch the ceremony from a slightly closer distance to where you are.
在这片海域上，也有不少的修士被这天地异象所吸引，但他们不敢靠近，只能远远的围观。¤On this sea region, there were also many cultivators who were attracted by these celestial phenomena, but they dare not approach and could only watch from afar.
不过除了这些人，你还见到了几个熟悉的面孔，他们匆匆赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤However, besides these people, you also saw a few well-known faces rushing over to watch the ceremony from a slightly closer distance.
何况，就算长老能赶到，二叔怕是已经......对了！那颗丹药！¤Moreover, even if the elder could arrive on time, I'm afraid Second Uncle might already...Oh! The pill!
那金丹修士似光电般急速退远，召出法宝再度上前。两人战到一起，兵戈之声铮铮不绝，你与倪旭欣站在一旁焦急地等待着。¤The cultivator with a golden core rapidly retreated like electricity, summoning their artifact and charging forward once again. The clash of weapons resounded continuously as the two battled. You and Ni Xuxin anxiously waited on the sidelines.
竟是倪家之人...这倒是有些难办。¤Surprisingly, it's someone from the Ni family... This is a bit difficult to handle.
这点小事你不必放在心上，今日还是多亏你二叔救了咱们，只凭我可拦不住那人。¤You don't need to worry about this small matter. We are grateful for the help of your second uncle today, I alone wouldn't have been able to stop that person.
这位道友看来是想插手此事？¤Fellow daoist, it seems that you want to intervene in this matter?
倪家二叔本就强打精神与他对峙，见此情景心下一松，昏死过去。¤Ni Family's second uncle had been mentally struggling against him, but upon seeing this scene, his heart relaxed and he fainted.
倪兄可知你们家族的其他长老赶过来还需多久？¤Brother Ni, do you know how long it will take for the other elders of your clan to arrive?
可惜，你们今天遇到的是老夫。¤Unfortunately, you have encountered me today.
那人声色俱厉地呵责着倪旭欣，但你仍能看出其中浓厚的关切之意。¤The person scolded Ni Xuxin harshly, but you could still see the deep concern in their tone.
二叔！你来啦！¤Uncle Er! You're here!
哎呀错了错了，不是这个。¤Oops, my bad, that's not it.
但见到服下丹药的倪叔几息之间便充盈生气，身上的伤口迅速地恢复起来，你顿感或许是自己多心了。¤But as soon as Ni Shu took the medicinal pill, his body quickly recovered, brimming with abundant vitality within a few breaths. You suddenly realized that you may have been overly cautious.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}快帮我找找！¤{FirstName} brother, please help me look for it!
二叔！二叔你没事吧！¤Uncle Er! Uncle Er, are you okay?
对对对！上次在龙隐洞拿到的那个丹药！就是它！¤Right, right, right! It's the pill that I got last time in Long Yin Cave!
咳...咳咳......¤Ahem...cough cough...
他一边说着，一边祭出一柄银色的短剑，一看便不是凡品。你和倪旭欣面面相觑，都感到事情有些棘手...¤As he spoke, he pulled out a silver short sword that was obviously not an ordinary weapon. You and Ni Xuxin exchanged a worried glance, both feeling that this situation was becoming difficult.
你上前同倪旭欣一起查探他的伤势，发现他的状况并不乐观。¤You stepped forward to investigate his injuries with Ni Xuxin, only to find that his condition was not optimistic.
莫非你是说......？¤Could it be that you're saying...?
说时迟那时快，只见那人右手一挥，金色长剑骤然出现，以雷霆万钧之势向前劈去。¤As time passed slowly, suddenly the person's right hand waved and a golden long sword appeared. With the force of ten thousand jin like thunder, it chopped forward.
（摇头）二叔刚才应该是诓他，我可没有听说过什么命符还可以用来通知家族长老支援的。¤(Shaking his head) Uncle Er was probably lying to him just now. I've never heard of any command symbol that could be used to notify the elders for support.
二人修为将近，僵持良久也未能分出胜负。金丹修士见状一时恶向胆边生，运了十足的力气直向倪旭欣冲来。¤The two cultivators were evenly matched, and after a long stalemate, neither was able to gain the upper hand. Seeing an opportunity, a cultivator with a golden core suddenly became bold and charged directly towards Ni Xuxin, using all their strength.
有几分本事，若是寻常的金丹修士也许还真拿不住你们两个。¤If he has some skills, ordinary cultivators with just a golden core may not be able to hold you two down.
这下暂时应该没问题了......不过还是得赶紧送二叔回武陵城才是。¤For now, there shouldn't be any problems... but we still need to hurry and send the second one back to Wuling City.
倪旭欣慌忙地从储物袋里倒出一堆丹药瓶子，五花八门的标签让你眼花缭乱。¤Ni Xuxin frantically poured out a pile of pill bottles from a storage pouch, their various labels causing your head to spin. 
不知道友受何人所雇取我侄儿性命？那人所出报酬我倪家愿双倍奉上。¤I don't know who hired fellow daoist to take the life of my nephew? My Ni family is willing to double the reward offered by that person.
咳咳......你虽伤了我，但刚刚也中了我的剑气。要是再强行运气施展法术，导致经脉受损，自己也讨不得好。¤Cough cough... Although you've injured me, you were also hit by my sword qi just now. If you forcefully use spells again and cause meridian damage, you won't be able to escape unscathed.
道友手下留情！¤Fellow daoist, please take it easy on my subordinates!
那{xiaozi}和你可以走，但你侄子必须留下好让我交差。¤You can leave with {xiaozi}, but your nephew must stay behind so I can report back.
道友言下之意是？¤What does your fellow daoist mean?
你小子可叫我好找！每次出门都闯祸，最后叫家里人给你善后。¤You little one, I can easily find you! Every time you go out, you cause trouble and in the end, you have to ask your family to clean up after you.
不过受人钱财，替人办事。报酬我已收下，事情必须得有个结果。¤However, taking someone's money means doing their work. I have already received the payment and the matter must have a result.
紧要关头，那人舍身护住倪旭欣，替他挡下了致命的一击。金丹修士眼见计谋落败，祭起法宝又想再攻。¤At a critical moment, that person sacrificed themselves to protect Ni Xuxin, blocking a fatal blow for him. Seeing their plan fail, the Cultivator with a Golden Core summoned an artifact and prepared to attack again.
黑色瓷瓶里倒出的丹药上流动着暗金光芒，不知为何你隐约感觉这颗来历不明的丹药存在着某些问题。¤The pill poured out from the black ceramic bottle was shimmering with a dark golden light. However, you faintly felt that there might be some issues with this unidentified pill.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，今日我又欠了你一个人情，我...¤{FirstName} brother, today I owe you another favor, I...
你还是赶紧送你二叔回武陵城疗伤去吧！¤You should hurry and go back to Wuling City to heal your injuries!
既然如此，那便手下见真章！¤Since that's the case, then let's see the truth with our own eyes!
那金丹修士面色阴晴不定，左思右想下大抵还是觉得性命更重，踩着剑便逃遁而去。¤The cultivator with a golden core hesitated for a moment before ultimately deciding that his life was more important. He quickly mounted his sword and fled the scene.
刚刚我已通过命符通知家族的其它长老，奉劝你还是走为上策。伤了我又想害旭欣，倪家定叫你偿命。¤Just now, I have informed the other elders of the Ni family through the command symbol. It is advisable for you to flee. Hurting me and wanting to harm Xuxin, the Ni family will make you pay with your life.
看来此地至少有元婴期龙族战死，这冲天战意混着这死气，早已把这此地变成大凶之地了，这种地方最有可能产生渊血冥花、厉魂血珀之类的宝物。¤It seems that at least some nascent soul dragon clan members have died in this land. The soaring fighting spirit mixed with death energy has long turned this place into a dangerous land, where treasures such as the abyssal bloodbloom and the ravenous soul amber are most likely to emerge.
你神识扫过。¤Your soul sense sweeps by.
此地似乎并没有什么。¤This place seems to have nothing.
你眼前是一片废墟，其中死气弥漫。¤Before your eyes lies a ruins, filled with a pervasive aura of death.
嗯，我会自己小心的。¤Um, I'll be careful on my own.
9011，岛屿修士争斗（普通）¤9011, Island Cultivator Conflict (Normal)
要去哪里采集呢？{w}{w=0.5}¤Where do you want to go gathering? {w}{w=0.5}
方才听见外面的打斗声我斗胆一试，拼尽全力将元神波动送出阵法外，幸而你发现了。¤Just a moment ago, I heard the sounds of a fight outside, so I dared to try my best to send my yuan god fluctuations out of the array. Fortunately, you noticed me.
这些修士被你打得七零八落，栽栽歪歪地靠在墙上，你看到他们狼狈的样子摇了摇头，飞快地沿着台阶向上跑去。¤You beat these cultivators up until they were all knocked down and sprawled against the wall. Shaking your head at their sorry state, you quickly run up the steps without looking back.
抱歉，我{SayStcVal=917}二层，只接纳金丹期及以上前辈，或是财资雄厚的道友。¤Sorry, I am only accepting senior cultivators at the golden core level or above, or fellow daoists with substantial wealth. {SayStcVal=917} on the second level.
前辈请~¤Senior, please~
城外村落星罗棋布，城内仙府鳞次栉比，各安天命，一派安详。¤Outside the city, villages are scattered like stars, while inside the city, immortal mansions are arranged in an orderly manner. Everyone has their destiny, and it's a peaceful scene.
沿着山路奔波数日，终于来到了武陵城下。¤After traveling along the mountain road for several days, I finally arrived at the foot of Wuling City.
不错，不错...¤Not bad, not bad...
算了算了，老夫再找找别人吧...¤Never mind, I'll look for someone else...
嗯...看来这味“龙须根”还是有些问题...¤Hmm...it seems that there are some issues with this dragon's whiskers root...
你来的正好，老夫这炉丹药正炼到关键时候，脱不开身。现在还缺了一味”百草露“，你身上可有备着？¤You came at just the right time. I am in the critical stage of refining this pill and cannot leave. I am missing a type of 'panacea dew'. Do you happen to have it with you?
你来的正好，老夫这炉丹药正炼到关键时候，脱不开身。现在还缺了一味”火精枣“，你身上可有备着？¤It's good timing that you're here. I'm at a crucial point in refining this pill and can't leave. I'm missing a crucial ingredient, 'firelight jujube.' Do you happen to have it on you?
你来的正好，老夫正要开炉炼丹，你再来给老夫打个下手。¤You came just in time. I am about to start alchemy. Can you give me a hand?
生命值上限-1¤Maximum HP -1.
没想到这“龙纹草”作为药引还有如此功效，不错，不错...¤I didn't expect this 'dragonvein leaf' to have such great medicinal properties as an herb, not bad, not bad...
看来这里使用“五柳根”还是有些问题，不能直接用来代替古方中的材料...¤It seems that there are some issues with using petrificious root here, as it cannot directly replace the materials mentioned in the ancient recipes...
生命值上限+3¤Maximum Life Value +3
嗯...看来是“黄枫草”中和了\"龙须根”的毒性...¤Yellow Maple Grass.
这个...晚辈正好肚子不舒服，前辈还是找别人帮忙吧！¤This... junior happens to have an upset stomach, so it's better for senior to ask someone else for help!
晚辈这会儿正有些急事要办，前辈您看....¤Senior, I have some urgent matters to attend to at the moment. What do you think?
臭{xiaozi}，没有你说有，你莫不是在拿老夫寻开心？¤Stinky brat, there's nothing that you said there would be. Are you trying to poke fun at me?
你来的正好，老夫这炉丹药正炼到关键时候，脱不开身。现在还缺了一味”天元果“，你身上可有备着？¤You've come at the right time. I'm in the crucial moment of refining this pill, and I can't step away. I still need a skyborne fruit. Do you happen to have one with you?
（长老好像正在研究丹方...我还是不要打扰他了）¤(The elder seems to be researching recipes... I better not disturb him.)
加了一味“龙须根”，居然还能有这等妙用，有趣，有趣...¤After adding a bit of dragon's whiskers root, it's amazing that it can still be used in such incredible ways. How interesting, how interesting...
哈哈哈哈，你来的正好，老夫这批新药刚刚出炉，正想找人来试一试呢。¤Hahaha, you've come just in time. I've just finished making this batch of new medicine and was just looking for someone to test it out.
你接过丹药长老手中的扇子，替他慢慢扇起火来...¤You received the fan from the alchemy elder and slowly fanned the fire for him.
嗯，不错，你的修为相比上次倒是又有了些长进。老夫也不会白让你辛苦这一个多月，这枚洗髓丹就当你帮我看护丹炉的报酬了。¤Well, not bad. Your cultivation has improved since last time. I won't have you work hard for nothing this past month. Consider this minor qi pill as your reward for helping me watch over the alchemy furnace.
算了算了，老夫还是自己想想办法吧。¤Never mind, I'll think of a solution myself, he said.
你服下药丸，味道不错，但好像什么效果也没有...¤You take the pill and it tastes good, but it seems like there's no effect...
药丸入口即化，你只觉得一股暖流直通你的丹田，你连忙盘腿打坐，将药力完全炼化开，只觉得浑身精力充沛，说不出来的舒坦。¤The pill dissolved instantly in your mouth, and you felt a warm current flowing straight to your dantian. You quickly sat cross-legged and completely refined the medicinal power, feeling full of energy and indescribably comfortable all over.
嗯...这“雪玉骨参”不亏是天下奇药，连炼制起来的方法都和一般的草药不一样。¤Hmm... This frostbone ginseng is truly a rare herb in the world, even its refining method is different from that of common herbs.
你服下药丸，没过多久，就觉得头晕眼花，浑身乏力了起来...¤After taking the pill, you quickly felt dizzy and weak all over...
哈哈哈哈，老夫这龙虎丹终于练成了，这古方中的材料果然是可以用药性相似的草药去替换的。¤Hahaha, I, the old man, have finally successfully refined the wild beast pill. The materials in this ancient recipe can indeed be replaced with herbs with similar medicinal properties.
阁下这可不是问问题的态度。¤Your demeanor is not appropriate for asking questions.
离火门{FirstName}{LastName}，运送火麟玉而来。¤Fire Gate Sect's {FirstName} {LastName}, here to deliver the Fire-Lynx Jade.
咱有些问题想要问问道友，不知可否移步？¤Fellow daoist, I have some questions and was wondering if I could ask for your guidance?
一不留神，你陷入了一座困阵之中。¤Without realizing it, you've fallen into a trap.
恒如道友客气了，留步。¤Fellow Daoist Hengru, don't be so polite, please stay.
阁下跟了我一路了，也不知有何贵干啊。¤Sir, you have been following me all the way. I wonder what brings you here.
走好，不送。希望还有再见之日。¤Go well, without seeing off. Hope to have a chance to meet again.
你察觉到一缕气息自你出了化尘教，就一直尾随在你身后。¤You notice a faint breath trailing behind you ever since you left the Shifting Sand Sect.
恒如长老早就吩咐下来了，我这就传信通知他。¤Elder Hengru had already issued the order beforehand, I will send a message to notify him right away.
何苦呢？困兽之斗，不过是多吃点苦头罢了。¤Why bother? Struggling like trapped beasts is nothing but enduring some hardship.
此次火麟玉品质上乘，多谢道友及时送达了。¤This fire-lynx jade is of excellent quality. Thank you, fellow daoist, for delivering it on time.
虽是许久无人维护，但眼前的药田到没有完全荒废。¤Although it has been a long time since anyone has maintained it, the herbs field in front of me is not completely abandoned.
一番查探你发现此地的尚有一座阵法在运转，其中长有几株草药。¤After a thorough search, you discover that there is still an array in operation in this area, with a few herbs growing within it.
道友出海时若是遇上乱流也无需太过惊慌，可以看看附近是否有修士聚集的避难岛屿。某些修士会在乱流到来时就近选择岛屿开辟洞府，求得一线生机。¤Fellow daoist, if you encounter rough tides during your sea travels, there's no need to panic. Look for refuge islands where cultivators may have gathered. Some cultivators may even open a cave on these islands as a last resort for survival when faced with rough seas.
好险...禾山道和沂山派打架，我凑啥热闹，唉...¤Close call... Mt. Harvest Sect and Mt. Yi Sect are fighting, I have no part in this, sigh...
哪里多出来的{xiaozi}，坏我们好事。¤Where did this {xiaozi} come from, ruining our good fortune.
哼今天先放过你们，我们走！¤Hmph, I'll let you off the hook today. Let's go!
他奶奶的，要不是大哥不在，轮得到你们嚣张？¤Damn it, if big brother was here, do you think you could be so arrogant?
哈哈哈哈，你们刚刚不是很能么？¤Hahaha, weren't you just very capable?
这玉简当真能跑……好在追它的时候，倒也习得了一丝遁术的门道。¤This jade scroll can really move... Fortunately, while chasing it, I also learned a bit about the art of mobility.
说是静室，但这里大得出奇，又异常空旷，倒是个施展拳脚的好地方。¤Although it's called a quiet room, it's surprisingly large and spacious here. It's actually a good place to practice martial arts.
你运起遁术，将速度提升到极致，但以你的速度却根本无法追上它。¤You activate your mobility technique, increasing your speed to the limit. However, even with your enhanced speed, you are unable to catch up to it.
领悟遁术《{color=#d0380a}鹤点足{/color}》¤Enlightenment mobility 《{color=#d0380a}Crane Foot{/color}》
你追上去又试着触碰了它几次，并仔细观察它逃走的原理。如此反复了数个时辰。¤You chased after it and tried to touch it a few more times, carefully observing its escape method. This went on for several hours.
你试图动用灵力将它吸入手中，但它却不受此影响，纹丝不动。¤You try to use spiritual power to suck it into your hand, but it is not affected and remains motionless.
原来如此，这空间波动的原理，我若能运用在遁术上，必然大有突破。¤So, this is how it is. If I can apply the principle of space fluctuations to my mobility technique, there will be a great breakthrough.
“飘在空中的玉简？倒是闻所未闻，不知其中究极有何玄机。”¤The jade scroll floating in the air? That's unheard of, I wonder what mysteries lie within.
你运起遁术，将速度提升到极致，但是随着你的速度越快，它消失的速度便也越快。¤You activate your mobility technique, boosting your speed to the limit. However, as your speed increases, the technique's duration diminishes at an even faster rate.
但以你的悟性，根本看不出什么门道。¤But with your comprehension, you can't see any way out at all.
你索性盘腿坐下，潜心感悟这玉简的运行原理……¤You might as well cross-legged sit down, concentrate on enlightening the operating principles of this jade scroll...
你似乎发现了它在逃走的那一瞬间所隐含的空间波动。¤You seem to have discovered the spatial fluctuations hidden in its escape moment.
这玉简怎如此诡异？究竟是有何蹊跷？¤What is so strange about this jade scroll? What is the mystery behind it?
整个静室内，只有一枚泛着红光的玉简飘在空中，显得甚是诡异。¤In the entire quiet room, only a jade scroll emitting a red glow floated in the air, appearing quite eerie.
你来到一处怪异的静室。¤You have arrived at a strange quiet room.
玉简在被碰到的前一瞬，竟诡异的消失了，下一瞬便出现在静室的另一处，依旧是一动不动。¤In the instant that the jade scroll was touched, it bizarrely disappeared, only to reappear in another corner of the quiet room in the next moment, remaining perfectly still.
如此反复了数个时辰，你的对遁术的运用愈加熟练，竟多出了一分踏破空间的意思。¤After repeating this process for several hours, your use of mobility became even more proficient, revealing a hint of skybreaker the ability to step through space.
“难道说？”¤Could it be?
只见玉简上写着《鹤点足》三个字，再往内便隔绝神识，无法探查了。¤The jade scroll was inscribed with the three characters 《crane foot》, beyond which the soul sense was isolated and could no longer penetrate.
{FirstName}道友，这是...？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, what is this...?
魔修竟会混入化尘教内部，不知其余各派是否安好...¤Evil cultivators have managed to infiltrate the Shifting Sand Sect. I wonder if the other sects are safe...
赤火元铜精...！没想到宁州古迹中竟真有此物的存在，如此看来当真是那位的天命...！¤Red fire yuan copper essence...! I didn't expect this thing to really exist in the Ning Province ancient ruins. It seems that it truly is his destined treasure...!
{FirstName}长老，这是...？¤Elder {FirstName}, what is this...?
多谢道友找回我宗门传承，这是你应得的报酬！¤Thank you fellow daoist for recovering my clan's legacy. This is the reward that you deserve!
哈哈哈哈，门派定不会亏待{FirstName}长老，这是你应得的报酬！¤Hahaha, the sect will not mistreat Elder {FirstName}, this is the reward you deserve!
小心，不要轻易刺激到这里的胃壁，那样会加快这些酸液的腐蚀性。¤Be careful not to easily stimulate the stomach wall here, as it will accelerate the corrosion of the acidic fluid.
你四处搜索了一番，果然找到了不少未被腐蚀高阶材料，和几颗不知来路的红色晶石。¤You searched around and indeed found quite a few high-level materials that had not been corroded, as well as a few red crystals of unknown origin.
哈哈哈，这里确实是个不错的修行之处。鲲族直接施展神通吞噬天地灵气，效果可比一般的聚灵阵法好太多了。¤Hahaha, this is indeed a great place for cultivation. The Kun clan directly uses their divine skill to devour the spiritual energy of the heavens and earth, and the effect is much better than the usual gathering spirit array.
能抵挡住浪方大圣腐蚀的肯定都不是凡物，这些红色晶石说不定也大有名堂...先一并收下再说。¤Those who can resist the corrosion of Great Sage Langfang are definitely not ordinary things. These red crystals might also have great value... Let's collect them first.
仔细看看，这里还有不少没有被消化干净的妖兽残骸，仔细搜索一番应该会有所收获。¤Take a closer look, there are still many leftover spirit beast carcasses that haven't been fully digested. If you search carefully, you should be able to find something of value.
短时间内应该没什么危险了，这浪方体内的灵气极其充裕，只要能把带有腐蚀性的部分净化掉，我甚至能在这里闭关修炼。¤There should be no danger in the short term. The spiritual energy in the Wavecube is abundant, as long as the corrosive parts can be purified, I can even cultivate here in seclusion.
看来浪方大圣果然不在全盛状态，连这吞噬神通的威能也下降了不少。¤It seems that the Great Sage Langfang is not in his prime state, as even the power of his devouring divine skill has decreased significantly.
随着吸力的减弱，你终于从浪方黏糊糊的肉壁上挣脱开，跳到了下方开阔的空地上。¤As the suction weakened, you finally freed yourself from the sticky flesh walls of the wave and jumped onto the open ground below.
肉壁被你轰出一个大洞，海水瞬间涌了进来。你抓住机会，从洞口逃了出去...¤The fleshy wall was blasted open by you, and sea water rushed in instantly. Seizing the opportunity, you escaped through the hole...
或许你师傅便是想让你克服这一点？¤Perhaps your master wants you to overcome this?
谢谢你。¤Thank you.
可究竟如何才算拼尽全力？倘若事后发觉有更好的解法，可还算是拼尽全力？¤How can one truly know if they have exerted all their effort? If a better solution is found afterwards, can it still be considered having given it one's all?
世事无常，每个人都有自己的局限，若拼尽全力仍然无法解决问题，坦然接受便好。¤The world is unpredictable, and everyone has their own limitations. If you have tried your best but still can't solve the problem, it's better to accept it calmly.
其实有关变故的事你早已从师妹口中知晓，只是故作玩笑语气，好让他坦白的没有太大压力。¤Actually, you already knew about the changes from your sister, you just pretended to joke around to make him confess without too much pressure.
这种状态…¤This status...
李青麟听罢，若有所思地点了点头。¤After hearing it, Li Qinglin nodded thoughtfully.
多谢。{FirstName}道友，请！¤Thank you. Fellow daoist {FirstName}, please!
虽说紧急关头随行长老出手，将弟子们尽数救了下来，但我自入门以来，从没感受过这样的无力…与挫败…¤Although the elder who accompanied us in this urgent situation was able to rescue all of the disciples, I have never felt so powerless and defeated since I started practicing.
只是这与心魔究竟有何联系？¤However, what is the connection between this and the demon heart?
塞翁失马焉知非福，就算最初能找到合适的对手切磋论道，后续发展也不一定都能如愿。¤Even if Sai Weng lost his horse, how do we know it's not a blessing in disguise? Even if you can find a suitable opponent for a duel or debate in the beginning, it doesn't necessarily guarantee success in the long run.
亏你能想出缠绕自身这种取巧的方法，不过以你的水平，想赢我还早了一百年呢。¤It's impressive that you could come up with a trick like entangling yourself, but with your abilities, it will take at least a hundred years for you to defeat me.
若我分析的不错，只要青麟多加实战历练，懂得灵活变通，这心魔也就不攻自破了。¤If my analysis is correct, as long as Qing Lin gains more practical experience and learns to be flexible, this demon heart can be overcome without being attacked.
这心魔究竟对你造成了什么样的影响？¤What kind of impact has this demon heart had on you?
若没有那些戾气，我又怎会去招惹那妖王？¤If it weren't for that murderous aura, how could I have gone to provoke that demon king?
李青麟暗自咬了咬牙。¤Li Qinglin gritted his teeth inwardly.
相互道别后，你二人便当即离开了此地。¤After bidding each other farewell, the two of you immediately left this place.
若能帮到青麟兄，这点小忙又算得了什么？¤If it can help Brother Qinglin, what is this small favor?
我传音邀道友切磋，乃是为了除去长久以来的心魔。¤I transmit a message to invite fellow daoists to a duel, in order to eliminate the demon heart that has plagued me for a long time.
望你早日克服心魔，后会有期！¤I hope you can overcome your demon heart soon. See you later!
每次切磋，李青麟都能掌握一丝诀窍。一个月以来，他的实战技巧大有长进。¤Every time they duel, Li Qinglin is able to grasp a bit of insight. In the past few months, his practical fighting skills have greatly improved.
{FirstName}道友的实力与品性皆为上佳，自然是为首选。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}'s strength and character are both exceptional, making them the top choice.
不过，在与你交手过后，我总算明白了师尊的良苦用心。¤However, after fighting with you, I finally understand the good intentions of my master.
经过这一个月的切磋，你二人之间全然没有了刚见面时的那种拘谨。¤After months of dueling, the two of you have completely shed the initial awkwardness from when you first met.
青麟兄？¤Big brother Qinglin?
我原本可以帮师妹争取到更多时间，可那只异种魔的反常举动却让我慌了神。¤I could have helped my sister buy more time, but the abnormal behavior of that mixed demon made me panic.
随着李青麟的落败，一阵爽朗的笑声传来。¤As Li Qinglin was defeated, a burst of hearty laughter echoed out.
但如果我没有天灵根，入不了内门呢？面对这个问题，我甚至不敢往下思考。¤But what if I don't have a heavenly spirit root? How can I enter the inner sect? Faced with this question, I dare not even think further.
此番还是多谢道友了。¤Thank you fellow daoist for your help this time.
既然青麟兄有此心魔，此次约在下切磋又是何意？我又如何能帮你消除心魔？¤Since Brother Qing Lin has this demon heart, what is the meaning of this invitation for a duel? How can I help you eliminate the demon heart?
事后回想之时已然窥见其全貌，自然会有更好的方法，不必为此自责。¤After looking back afterwards, the whole picture is already glimpsed. Naturally, there will be better ways, no need to blame oneself for this.
这又是从何说起？¤Where should I begin?
论道持续了约莫一炷香时间…¤The debate lasted about the time it takes to burn one stick of incense...
畏惧魔物我尚能理解，不过你我二人只是切磋罢了，何需如此？莫非我比那魔物还要可怕？¤I can understand being afraid of spirit beasts, but we're just dueling. Why act like this? Am I scarier than a spirit beast?
原本我等合力击败一只筑基中期的妖兽即可，但当时我心高气傲，便去了一个筑基巅峰的腾蛇洞穴。¤Originally, we could have easily defeated a mid foundation establishment spirit beast together, but I was arrogant and went to the Teng Snake Cave, where a foundation building beast awaited.
它让我变得不自信…不，说是怯懦也不为过。¤It made me lose confidence... No, it's not an exaggeration to say I became timid.
师尊指示我，若想在结婴之前克服心魔，需要与同辈中的佼佼者切磋论道一番。¤My master instructed me that if I want to overcome my demon heart before nascent formation, I need to challenge and debate with the most outstanding peers.
说来也是蹊跷。¤It's also strange to tell.
现在就算不敌你，至少也不会生出心魔。但对上别人又当如何，我暂时还没有把握。¤For now, even if I can't defeat you, I won't have any demon heart. But when facing someone else, I still don't have the confidence.
在宗门内，我只是倚仗天灵根与师尊的悉心教导，才在同辈中立于不败之地。¤Within the clan, I only relied on my heavenly spirit root and the careful teachings of my master to stand undefeated among my peers.
嗯，此番恩情在下必然铭记在心，后会有期！¤Uh, this favor will certainly be remembered by me, until we meet again!
若不是闭关枯坐太过无聊，我又何至于生出那些戾气？¤If not for the boredom of cultivating in seclusion, why would I have produced such a hostile aura?
又辩论一会后，他低头沉思了片刻。¤After another brief debate, he lowered his head and pondered for a moment.
这个问题让你一时语塞。¤This question left you speechless for a moment.
虽然只有数息时间，可也放跑了那只异种魔，让师妹陷于危难之中…好在有道友相救，才使我不必那么内疚。¤Although it was only a matter of moments, I let the mixed demon escape and put my sister in danger... fortunately a fellow daoist came to the rescue, relieving me of some of my guilt.
还记得，当时{FirstName}道友连番邀请我杀魔，我却以照顾师妹为由推辞了，其实那更像是一个借口。¤Do you remember when Fellow Daoist {FirstName} repeatedly asked me to go kill demons, but I declined by using taking care of my younger martial sister as an excuse? In reality, it was more like a pretext.
他低头沉思了片刻。¤He lowered his head and pondered for a moment.
难道说…你师傅认为正是缺乏实战历练，才导致你滋生心魔？¤Could it be that... your master believes it is precisely due to lack of practical experience that you've developed a demon heart?
若早知道切磋论道能学到这般技巧，我当初又何必整天闭关枯坐？¤If I had known that dueling and debating could teach me such skills, why did I spend all those days cultivating in seclusion?
至于为何是切磋？切磋如何能消除心魔？其中真意，我却无从得知…¤As for why it's a duel? How can a duel eliminate the demon heart? The true meaning behind it, however, I have no way of knowing...
{FirstName}道友所言极是，不过以{FirstName}道友之见，此心魔应当如何克服为好？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}'s words are indeed correct. However, in {FirstName}'s opinion, how should one best overcome this 'demon heart'?
我一直埋头修行，倒是从未想过通过外物的方法克服心魔。¤I have always focused on cultivating myself and never considered overcoming my demon heart through external means.
此事还要从我筑基初期时的那次历练说起。¤To understand this matter, I must start with my foundation building period experience.
既然{FirstName}道友已经看出了端倪，我若再隐瞒反倒是辜负了一片好意。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, since you have already seen through the situation, it would be a waste of goodwill if I were to continue to conceal anything.
略微寒暄几句后，你二人便相互告别离开了此地。¤After exchanging a few casual greetings, the two of you bid farewell to each other and left this place.
倒也不无可能。我自入门以来，大部分时间都在闭关修炼，与同门的比试也通常缺乏挑战，像今天这样的切磋倒是头一遭。¤It's not impossible. Since I started learning, I've spent most of my time cultivating in seclusion. And when I do spar with fellow disciples, it's usually lacking in challenge. A duel like today is a rare occurrence.
诚然，表面上缺乏历练与心魔毫无关联，但他师傅的指示也绝不可能无的放矢，这里面一定有什么更深层次的原因。¤Certainly, on the surface there seems to be no connection between lack of experience and the demon heart, but his master's instructions cannot be arbitrary. There must be some deeper reason behind it.
你二人星河为友，竹林为伴，日夜切磋论道，沉沦其中。其中逍遥自在，只有你二人知晓。¤You two are friends in the Celestial River, accompanied by the bamboo forest, dueling and debating day and night, immersed in it. Only you two know the prosperity of being carefree within it.
你察觉到了他的异样，随即停下攻击，走上前去。¤You noticed something unusual about him, so you stopped your strike and walked towards him.
炼气时，师尊看我身具天灵根，便让我成日闭关修炼，无趣的紧。¤During qi refining, my master saw that I had a heavenly spirit root and asked me to cultivate in seclusion every day, which was boring.
我也正有此意，请。¤I also have this intention, please.
即便如此，在真正需要我的时候，我却连伸出援手都做不到。¤Even so, when I am truly needed, I cannot even lend a helping hand.
所以，我再也不敢看不起，甚至是有些敬佩我的那些师兄弟们——为什么在如此不利的条件下，竟然还能有这般成就？¤Therefore, I dare not look down on, even admire, my senior brothers who have achieved so much under such unfavorable conditions.
客气，此番能帮到你，便是再好不过了。¤Polite, being able to help you this time is the best thing I can do.
闭关枯坐或许能增长修为，但若要面对日后的种种困境，空有修为自然是远远不够。只用一套功法体系也满足不了实战中的各种需求。¤Retreating into seclusion and meditating may indeed help in cultivating one's strength, but it is far from enough to face the challenges of the future. Relying solely on cultivation is insufficient for practical purposes. Having only one set of techniques cannot fulfill the various demands of combat.
在那以后，每当我遇到类似的情形，我都会想起这段往事…它俨然已经成为了我的心魔。¤After that, whenever I encounter similar situations, I think of this past experience... It has become my Demon Heart.
那一瞬间，我又回想起了我的心魔。¤At that moment, I recalled my Demon Heart once again.
丹药？¤Dan medicine?
若青麟兄能做到念头通达，或许心魔便能迎刃而解了？¤If Brother Qinglin can achieve access to his thoughts, perhaps the demon heart can be resolved easily?
实战中变数之多，就算打坐一辈子恐怕也无法完全领悟，只有多切磋历练、学习请教方能有备无患。¤In actual combat, there are so many variables that even if one meditated for a lifetime, it would be difficult to fully comprehend. Only through frequent duels, gaining experience, and learning from others can one be fully prepared.
的确，青麟兄不如与我论道一番，或许在下愚见能帮助到青麟兄一二。¤Indeed, Brother Qinglin, why don't we have a debate and perhaps my foolish perspective could be of some help to you.
若没去招惹那妖王，我又怎么会生出这心魔？¤If I hadn't provoked that demon king, would I have developed this demon heart?
挑战妖王那次，若你经验丰富，知道与筑基巅峰妖王的差距，又或者你非常了解腾蛇，知道缠绕功法很难针对到它，都不至于使同门陷入险境。¤During the challenge against the Demon King, if you were experienced enough to understand the gap between Foundation Building and peak level Demon Kings, or if you had extensive knowledge of Tengshe and knew that the Tangled technique is difficult to use against it, then your fellow sect members would not have fallen into danger.
你隐约观察到，虽然他功法修为极高，所施展的神通亦然强劲，可一招一式皆在你预料之内，并无多少变化。¤You vaguely observe that, although his cultivation is extremely high and his divine skills are also powerful, each move and technique he uses is within your expectations and there is not much variation.
所以，说心魔是因为缺乏实战经验而导致的也不为过。¤Therefore, it is not exaggerating to say that the demon heart is caused by the lack of practical experience.
天下没有不散的宴席，既然你已然想明白去路，便后会有期罢。¤There is no never-ending feast under heaven. Now that you have already figured out your path, let's plan to meet again in the future.
而天魔眼中，若你能提前考虑到分神控制第三只异种魔的后果，也不会因为突如其来的变故而乱了心神。¤And in the heavenly devil's eye, if you can anticipate the consequences of dividing your focus to control the third mixed demon, you won't be thrown off by a sudden unforeseen event.
那时我刚将师尊传给我的功法神通修炼至瓶颈，便接到任务带一批练气期弟子去方壶山历练。¤At that time, I had just reached a bottleneck in my cultivation of the techniques and divine skills that my master had passed down to me, when I received a quest to take a group of qi refining disciples to Fang Hu Mountain for training.
抱歉，让道友见笑了。¤I'm sorry, fellow daoist, for causing you embarrassment.
切磋时，你所使用的功法神通虽然威能不俗，但大都缺乏变通，以至于面对奇招之时疲于应对。¤During the duel, although the technique or divine skill you use may be powerful, they usually lack flexibility and you may struggle to deal with unexpected moves.
我开始怀疑自己，是否真的如同我想的那么强。¤I started to doubt myself, whether I am really as strong as I think I am.
哈哈哈，不知{FirstName}兄以为这招如何？¤Hahaha, what do you think of this move, {FirstName} brother?
择日不如撞日，道友可愿留下与我操练一番？¤Choosing a day is not as good as seizing the day. Fellow Daoist, would you be willing to stay and practice with me?
此番谢过{FirstName}道友了，后会有期。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, I thank you for this time. Let us meet again in the future.
不愧是青麟兄，厉害！¤Deserving of being my younger brother Qing Lin, impressive!
慌乱的神情只持续了数息时间，便消失不见。¤The panicked expression lasted only a few breaths before disappearing.
可是…念头通达，谈何容易？¤But... to have a clear mind and understanding is not easy to achieve.
此事，我倒有一丝头绪。¤I have a slight idea about this matter.
当真是造化弄人，造化弄人呐…¤It's truly fate messing with us, fate messing with us...
若我所记不错，你当初面对那三只异种魔时，便是相同的神情吧？¤If my memory serves me right, you had the same expression when facing those three mixed demons back then, didn't you?
李青麟犹豫了一会，最终还是叹了口气。¤Li Qinglin hesitated for a moment, but ultimately let out a sigh.
而真正的原因是，我受到心魔的影响，内心之中对未知的恐惧占了上风，直到数个时辰之后才缓过神来。¤As for the real reason, I was affected by the demon heart. Fear of the unknown overwhelmed me, and it wasn't until several hours later that I regained my composure.
他们纷纷看着我，希望我力挽狂澜，但我却什么都做不到，只是愣在原地……\t¤They all looked at me, hoping that I could turn the tide of the frenzy, but I couldn't do anything and just stood there...
多谢{FirstName}道友提醒，我这便去拜会本门的炼丹长老，后会有期。¤Thank you, {FirstName} fellow daoist, for reminding me. I will now go visit our sect's alchemy elder. Until we meet again.
随着你奇招频出，他的神情开始慌乱，动作也变得僵硬起来。¤As you made more and more bizarre moves, his expression began to panic and his movements became stiff.
青麟兄不妨尝试一下，通过服用丹药增加心境的方式遏制心魔？¤Brother Qinglin, why not try to suppress your demon heart by increasing your mental state through taking medicine?
或许在我能灵活应对各种情形之时，便是我心魔便完全消除之日。¤Perhaps the day my demon heart is completely eliminated is when I can flexibly deal with all situations.
{FirstName}道友所说确实不无道理，在下这便回洞府消化一番。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}'s words are indeed reasonable. I will now return to my cave to contemplate further.
这一个月来，不知你那心魔可还健在？¤In the past few months, I wonder if your demon heart is still intact?
可谁想，那条腾蛇异常灵活，我的缠绕功法非但没有对它产生效果，其藤曼反倒为它所用，同行的炼气期弟子都被它缠得动弹不得。¤But who would have thought that the agile soaring snake would not be affected by my tangled technique, and instead, it used my own vines against me. Fellow qi refining stage disciples who were present were all ensnared and couldn't move a muscle.
怎么了，你是不是想起了什么？¤What's wrong, have you remembered something?
周天的灵气倏然平静下来，你明白自己已经离开了空间裂隙，进入了一个相对安稳的位面空间之中。¤The spiritual energy in the meridians suddenly calmed down, and you knew that you had already left the space rift and entered a relatively stable plane of space.
没什么，我可以确定千年前自己来过这里，但当年到底在这里发生了什么...¤Nothing much, I can confirm that I have been here a thousand years ago, but what happened here back then...
看来这里就是古战场所在的位面，灵气虽然还算充沛，但并不如宁州那样稳定。¤It seems that this is the plane where the ancient battlefield is located. Although the spiritual energy is still abundant, it is not as stable as that of Ningzhou.
走吧，这里应该离古战场的核心区域应该还有不少的距离，总之还是先找到那座古城所在的位置吧。¤Let's go. We should still have a ways to go before reaching the core area of the ancient battlefield. For now, let's focus on finding the location of the ancient city.
哼，能接下我几招，倒也有几分本事。¤Hmph, being able to take a few of my moves shows some skill.
我们龙族一向以强者为尊，我认可你的实力。但百里家所窃龙珠于我族意义重大，又事关我龙族尊严，今日若是无法讨得一个说法，我定不会善罢甘休！¤Our dragon clan has always respected the strong, and I recognize your strength. However, the theft of the Dragon Pearl by the Baili family is of great significance to our clan and concerns our dignity. If we cannot reach a satisfactory resolution today, I will not give up easily!
也罢，既然我已取回龙珠，那先前同百里家的恩怨便既往不咎，与蓬莎岛及广陵城的协议也就此作罢。不过若你们百里家再打龙珠的主意，我龙族之威可不是你们承受得起的！¤Alright then, since I have retrieved the Dragon Ball, I will let bygones be bygones regarding any grievances with the Baili family. The agreements with Pongsha Island and Guangling City are also null and void. However, if the Baili family has any intentions of taking the Dragon Ball again, the might of the Dragon Clan is not something you can bear!
等眼下的事情忙完...或许我会重新出海游历，去挑战不同海域的强者，磨练自己的修为。¤After finishing the current business at hand, perhaps I will set sail again to challenge the strong cultivators of different oceans and cultivate my own cultivation.
不过这四大妖圣个个都有{color=#d0380a}化神期{/color}实力，我虽然很想见识一番，但只凭我如今的修为实在是有些不自量力了。¤However, all four demon saints have the strength of {color=#d0380a}void transformation{/color}. Although I am eager to witness it, my current level of {color=#d0380a}cultivation{/color} is a bit inadequate.
龙湛出手的速度比你快上许多，电光火石间便与百里奇战成一团。¤Dragon Zhan's hands moved much faster than yours, and in the blink of an eye he was locked in combat with Baili Qi.
哎...没想到你们两个小娃娃能有这般心境，倒是比百里家那些个虚长几辈的长老有出息的多。¤Ah... I didn't expect you two little brats to have such a strong mental state. It's much more impressive than those elders of the Baili Family who are only fake seniors by age.
哈哈哈，那这次就先算我百里奇欠{xiongdi}一个人情，日后若有任何需要我帮忙的地方，我必当尽力而为！¤Hahaha, then let's just say that I owe {xiongdi} a favor this time. If there's anything you need help with in the future, I will do my best to assist!
如今龙族与我们的协议已经作罢，我要先与父亲一起重新规划家族商队的航线。¤Now that the agreement with the Dragon Clan is over, I need to work with my father to re-plan our family's merchant group's route.
不知百里兄之后有什么打算？¤I wonder what plans Baili Brother has for the future?
龙族长老未曾化为本体，就已经有如此实力，真想见识见识那名列于四大妖圣之位的龙族族长覆海大圣，到底有多强。¤Even without transforming into their true form, the dragon clan elders have such overwhelming strength. I truly wish to witness the power of the overwhelming sea saint, who holds a position among the four great demon saints of the dragon clan.
你在一旁观战，趁两人距离稍远时大喊出声。¤You stand on the sidelines watching the battle, shouting loudly when the two are slightly apart.
传说无尽之海有四大妖圣，分别是化龙海的{color=#d0380a}覆海大圣{/color}，吞云海的{color=#d0380a}吞云大圣{/color}，无尽海渊的{color=#d0380a}九幽大圣{/color}，以及浪方海域的{color=#d0380a}浪方大圣{/color}。¤Legend has it that there are four great demon saints in the Endless Sea: the {color=#d0380a}Overwhelming Sea Saint{/color} in the Shifting Dragon Sea, the {color=#d0380a}Cloud Swallowing Saint{/color} in the Swallowing Cloud Sea, the {color=#d0380a}Nine Underworld Saint{/color} in the Endless Abyss, and the {color=#d0380a}Great Sage Langfang{/color} in the Langfang Sea.
更不用说海上还有另外三位与之齐名的妖圣，个个修为通天，若此生没有机会与这样的强者交手，岂不是一大憾事。¤Not to mention there are three other demon saints on the sea who are equally famous, all with incredible cultivation. It would be a great regret if one doesn't have the opportunity to fight against such powerful beings in this lifetime.
想找到龙宫的话，只有先去化龙海，向{color=#d0380a}附近的修士{/color}打探一番，看能不能得到一些有用的线索了。¤If you want to find the Dragon Palace, you must first go to the Shifting Dragon Sea and ask around the nearby cultivators to see if you can gather any useful information.
龙湛前辈，且先听我一言。百里兄并非有意失约，实在是事出有因！¤Senior Longzhan, please let me speak first. Brother Baili did not intentionally break the appointment, there was a reason behind it!
我曾听说龙族在化龙海建有一座{color=#d0380a}龙宫{/color}，不过却并不知道龙宫的确切位置。¤I have heard that the Dragon Clan has built a {color=#d0380a}Dragon Palace{/color} in the Shifting Dragon Sea, but I don't know the exact location of the Dragon Palace.
不臾多时，得了龙珠的龙族果然信守承诺，没有过多计较便返回了无尽之海。你与百里奇回到码头，跳下飞剑落在地面上。¤After some time, the Dragon Clan who received the Dragon Pearl did indeed keep their promise and did not make too much of a fuss before returning to the Endless Sea. You and Baili Qi returned to the pier, jumping off the flying sword and landing on the ground.
百里兄言重了，这次与你一同出海，我也长了不少见识，收获颇丰。何况以我们之间的交情，谈谢不谢的未免有些见外。¤Baili brother, you're too kind. This trip to the sea with you has broadened my horizons and I have gained a lot from it. Besides, given our friendship, it would be too formal to talk about thanks and gratitude.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，这次多亏你出手相助，才能化解我们百里家与龙族的恩怨，真不知该如何答谢你。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, thanks to your help is at hand this time, we were able to resolve the conflict between our Baili family and the dragon clan. I really don't know how to repay you.
好，那我便先回府处理家族事宜了。日后有事，{xiongdi}便用传音符与我联系吧。¤Alright, then I'll go back to my residence to handle family affairs. If there's anything in the future, {xiongdi} can contact me using the sound talisman.
你将这阵发生的事情细细道来，龙湛看起来略显不悦地接受了你的解释。百里奇乘机奉还龙珠，龙湛的脸色这才好看了许多。¤You recounted what had happened in detail, and Long Zhan looked slightly unhappy as he accepted your explanation. Baili Qi took the opportunity to return the dragon ball, and Long Zhan's complexion improved significantly.
我们问道楼除了出售法门神通还出售丹方，道友不妨看看？¤Within our Taoist Inquisition Building, we not only sell Divine Skills but also Recipes. Fellow Daoist may perhaps take a look?
你们这丹方也不便宜呢。¤Your recipe is not cheap either.
道友别嫌弃丹方昂贵，这丹方除了记载了药材配比，还记录了前人对于丹道的感悟，阅读之后能够精进自身的丹道领悟。¤Fellow daoist, please don't disdain the costly recipes. Besides detailing the proportions of medicinal materials, these recipes also contain the predecessors' enlightenment on pill dao. Reading them can help enhance one's own understanding of pill dao.
你将草药纳入储物袋，心满意足地离开了。¤You stored the herbs into a storage pouch and left with satisfaction.
找死。¤Looking for death.
你与炎萧见到一人正以手中魔晶吸取周围的魔气。对方发现了你们。¤You and Yan Xiao saw a person absorbing the magic qi around with a magic crystal in their hand. The person noticed you.
同时，你似乎与九霄雷狱的空间节点产生了一缕微妙的共鸣，但细细探查又被海上狂暴的灵气风暴所阻。¤At the same time, it seems that you have a subtle resonance with the spatial nodes of Jiu Xiao Lei Prison, but further investigation is blocked by the raging spiritual storm at sea.
呼~看来现在还是难以找到这九霄雷狱之所在。¤Phew~ It seems difficult to find the location of the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison now.
在你击散了雷灵之后，它的核心悬浮于水面之上。¤After you shatter the thunder spirit, its core hovers above the surface of the water.
虽是道道雷电直击肉身，但层层暗劲却难奈何你。¤Although the thunder and lightning strikes the flesh directly, the layers of dark energy are difficult to deal with.
就便是吸收雷晶后，所领悟的锻体法门吧。¤Even after absorbing the Thunder Crystal, it was the method of body forging that was realized.
核心倏地一下钻入了你的掌心，你似乎和先天灵气建立了某种联系。¤The core suddenly drilled into your palm, and you seemed to establish a connection with the sky spirit.
你奋力斩杀了毒虫，采摘了不少谷内灵药后转身离开此地。¤You fought hard and killed the venomous insects, and after harvesting some valuable spiritual herbs from the valley, you turned around and left the place.
你实力不济，根本不敌此毒虫。你咬咬牙，放弃了采摘灵药的念头直接离开了山谷。¤Your strength is insufficient, you're no match for this poisonous insect. You grit your teeth and abandoned the idea of picking spiritual medicine, leaving the valley directly.
对方头也不回的跑了。¤The other party ran away without looking back.
算了，放他走了，免得和竹山宗结下大仇。¤Let it go. Release him to avoid making a big enemy out of the Bamboo Mountain Sect.
奇怪，此处土属性灵气并不浓郁，为何会有三星石出现？¤Strange, the earth attribute aura isn't strong here, why is there a Three Stars Stone appearing?
咳咳...这，老夫也只是再翻阅古籍时见过，想完全读懂还是有些困难。¤Cough cough... this, I've only seen it while browsing through ancient texts, it's still quite difficult to completely understand.
看，这石头上似乎刻着什么文字？三星石坚硬异常且不容易被风化，古人常用此记录一些重要事件。你且把它擦干净试试。¤Look, there seems to be some writing carved on this stone. The Three Stars Stone is extremely hard and resistant to weathering, and ancient people often used it to record important events. Try wiping it clean for a closer look.
你施展了一个水枪术，三星石的表面瞬间便被冲刷干净，露出了一个个晦涩难懂的文字。¤You used a water gun technique, and instantly the surface of the three stars stone was washed clean, revealing obscure and difficult to understand text.
你认识这些字？¤Do you recognize these characters?
算了算了，那就先收着吧。说不定以后能遇到看得懂这些古代文字的人呢。¤Never mind, let's just keep them for now. Maybe in the future, we'll meet someone who can read these ancient characters.
这……竟是上古时期的文字！¤This... is actually ancient text from ancient times!
这是...三星石？¤Is this...the Three Stars Stone?
你赢了。¤You won.
焦师弟，你的功力也大有长进，我观你的修为已经快要达到瓶颈期了，这次又得了一颗筑基丹，等这次回去便好好准备一下闭关筑基的事情吧。¤Junior Jiao, your cultivation has made great progress. I can see that you are approaching the bottleneck period. You have also obtained a Foundation Pill this time, so when you return, make sure to prepare for closed-door cultivation to build your foundation.
一名竹山宗的巡逻弟子从前方经过，但因为修为太低，并没有发现你的存在。¤A bamboo mountain sect disciple on patrol passed by, but due to their low cultivation, they did not notice your presence.
站住！此地竹山宗所属，闲杂人等速速离去！¤Stop! This is the territory of Bamboo Mountain Sect. All unauthorized persons must get out of the way quickly!
道友功力深厚，在下佩服。¤Fellow Daoist, your cultivation is profound. I admire you.
哦？你也出来找猎物啊？¤Oh? You're also out looking for prey?
钟师弟，白帝即将渡劫飞升，我此番前来是受他之托，邀请炎麟道友届时前往观礼。¤Junior Zhong, the White Emperor is about to go through the tribulation and transition to ascension. I am here on his behalf to invite Fellow Daoist Yan Lin to come and witness the event.
钟师兄，白帝即将渡劫飞升，我此番前来是受他之托，邀请炎麟前辈届时前往观礼。¤Senior Brother Zhong, White Emperor is about to undergo transition to ascension. I am here at his request to invite Senior Yan Lin to attend the ceremony as a guest.
那此事便拜托钟师兄了。¤I'll leave this matter to Senior Brother Zhong.
不过师尊如今闭关未出，只得等师尊神游而归，才能将此事告知了。¤However, Master is currently in seclusion and hasn't come out yet. So I have to wait for Master to return from his spiritual journey before I can inform him of this matter.
那此事便拜托钟师弟了。¤Then I'll leave this matter to Junior Brother Zhong.
原来是白帝前辈要飞升了，这的确是一件大事。按师尊与前辈的交情，到时候一定会去捧场的。¤It turns out that Senior White Emperor is going to ascend, which is indeed a big event. Based on the relationship between the master and senior, we will definitely attend to show our support.
早知道就先去那采筠阁买上一手情报，花点小钱也好过竹篮打水。¤If I knew earlier, I would have gone to the Caegyun Pavilion to buy some information first. Spending a little money is better than coming back empty-handed.
这次出海运气可真差，大半年的时间也没打到几件值钱的材料。¤This time, our luck at sea was really bad. We didn't find many valuable materials even after half a year.
哼，都是些不值钱的玩意儿。¤Hmph, they are all worthless things.
不必担心，这里的事情我都已经听说了，我这次正是为此而来。¤Don't worry, I've already heard about everything here. I came here precisely for this.
平日里来侵扰村庄的大多是些灵智未开的野兽，完全不是你的对手。偶有妖兽出现，也被你轻松驱赶。如此一个月后，终于不再有妖兽出现了。¤On normal days, most of the creatures that disturb the village are untamed beasts without any spiritual intelligence, and they are no match for you. Occasionally a spirit beast appears, but you can easily drive it away. After several months of this, there were no more spirit beasts appearing.
仙师您这边请，我这就让大家帮您准备休息的房间。¤Immortal master, please come this way. I will have everyone prepare a resting room for you.
你一边说着，一边挥手将这些草药装进了储物袋中，然后不再搭理身后那些绝望的村民，扭头便离开了这里。¤As you spoke, you waved your hand and stored these herbs into a storage pouch, then ignored the desperate villagers behind you and turned around to leave.
仙师大人...村子里虽然拿不出什么特别值钱的东西，但平日里大家上山打猎，也收集不少草药和材料。仙师要是感兴趣的话，统统都可以拿去！¤Immortal master... Although there isn't anything particularly valuable in the village, the villagers often go up the mountain to hunt and collect herbs and materials. If the immortal master is interested, they are all available!
仙师大人，这是我们能拿出来的全部了，请您一定要帮帮我们啊！¤Immortal Master, this is all we can gather. Please help us!
要除去这些妖兽并不难，但我的时间可金贵的很。我凭什么为了你们这些凡人，在这里等上十天半月？¤It's not difficult to get rid of these spirit beasts, but my time is very precious. Why should I wait here for you mortals for days and days?
这里是附近比较大的一处村落，远远望去屋舍成群，但大都房门紧闭，街道上也冷冷清清，没有几个人待在外面。¤This is a relatively large village nearby, with clusters of houses in the distance, but most of them have tightly closed doors, and the streets are also deserted, with few people outside.
多谢大人，多谢大人！¤Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir!
你略施法术，便在指尖凝聚了一团灵气火焰。¤You cast a spell and condensed a ball of spiritual flame at your fingertips.
不错，区区低阶妖兽，也只敢侵扰你们这些普通凡人。要解决它们，对于我来说并不是什么难事。¤Alright, mere low-level spirit beasts, they only dare to harass you mortals. It's not a difficult task for me to deal with them.
接下去的一段时间，你被村民们安顿在村中最大的房子休息，村庄虽然贫困，但每日都会拿出最好东西款待你。¤For the next period of time, you were settled by the villagers in the largest house in the village to rest. Although the village was poor, they would offer their best every day to treat you.
哦？拿来看看。¤Oh? Let me see.
您...您是仙师大人？¤You...you are an immortal master?
最近村子里已经有好几人死在这些妖兽的利爪之下，大家现在都人心惶惶，不敢出门。请仙师大人一定要救救我们啊！¤Recently, several people have died in our village at the claws of these spirit beasts. Everyone is now living in fear and dare not leave their homes. Please, Immortal Master, you must save us!
你对这些低阶的草药不屑一顾，不再搭理身后那些绝望的村民，扭头便离开了。¤You disdain these low-level herbs and no longer care about the desperate villagers behind you. Turning your head, you leave.
村民们拼拼凑凑，拿出了三十余株一品的低阶草药。数量虽然不少，但都不是什么值钱的东西。¤The villagers managed to gather over thirty first grade herbs by pooling their resources. While the quantity was not insignificant, they were not particularly valuable.
这位{xiongdi}，天快黑了，你还是快些回家吧。这段时间附近不太平，要是撞到了妖兽可就麻烦了。¤Dear {xiongdi}, it's getting dark soon, so please hurry back home. This area has been quite chaotic recently, and it would be troublesome if you encounter any spirit beasts.
你放心，我一定帮你们村子除掉这些祸害，这也是我们这些正道修仙者的本分。¤Rest assured, I will definitely help you to eradicate these calamities from your village. This is also the duty of us righteous cultivators.
几经波折，众人终于回到了岫络谷，但也有一些修为不高或因为别的原因没有来得及逃出来的人，永远地留在了那里。¤After facing numerous setbacks, everyone finally returned to Cui Luo Valley. However, there were also some people who, due to their low cultivation levels or other reasons, didn't manage to escape and were left behind there forever.
就连几位元婴修为的大能也有一些狼狈，对比进入古迹时岫络谷中热闹的景象，此时不免有些凄凉。¤Even the powerful cultivators with nascent souls were a bit embarrassed. Compared to the bustling scene in Cui Luo Valley when they entered the ancient ruins, it was somewhat desolate at this moment.
他手上水灵气若隐若现，显然已经开始酝酿攻击。¤He had a faint aura of water energy on his hands, indicating that he was already preparing to strike.
龙湛长老，龙族到底为何对百里家穷追不舍？¤Elder Longzhan, why is the Dragon Clan relentlessly pursuing the Baili family?
许是化形的龙族，{FirstName}{xiongdi}，多加提防。¤Be cautious of the Dragon Clan, {FirstName}{xiongdi}, as they may have the ability to take human form.
你又是何人？¤Who are you again?
无妨¤It Doesn't Matter
你们试图偏离航线，但那人却如蛆附骨般紧紧跟随着你们。¤You are trying to deviate from the course, but that person is following you closely like a maggot on a bone.
长老，等等！¤Elders, wait!
哈哈哈，好一个不分青红皂白。你们百里族人心机狡诈，背信弃义，在碎星岛对我龙族出手，居然还有脸来化龙海撒野？¤Hahaha, what a disregard for right and wrong. Your Baili clan is truly cunning and unscrupulous, attacking my dragon clan on Shattered Star Island and having the audacity to cause trouble in the Shifting Dragon Sea.
真是奇怪，寻常修士虽擅御剑而行却也鲜少在这无尽之海中只身出行，莫非此人打算借浪潮炼体吗？¤It's really strange. Although ordinary cultivators are good at controlling their swords, they rarely travel alone in the endless sea like this. Could it be that this person intends to refine their body with the waves?
他手上灵气若隐若现，显然已经开始酝酿攻击。¤His spiritual energy was hidden and faintly visible in his hands, indicating that he had already started to prepare his strike.
我们来这里只是想调查当年之事的原委，若是再添新仇恨，也实非我的本意。¤We only came here to investigate the truth of what happened back then. If more hatred is stirred up, it is not my intention.
百里兄，是那些龙族不分青红皂白便对我们出手，我们总不能任人宰割。¤Brother Baili, those dragon clan members attack us without reason. We can't just let them take advantage of us.
哈哈哈，你同百里小儿一并在化龙海域撒野，竟连此处主人都认不出来吗？¤Hahaha, you and the little kid Baili are causing chaos in the Shifting Dragon Sea, and you can't even recognize the owner of this place?
哼，不管怎么说你二人当日打伤龙湛之事本座无法置之不理！¤Hmph, regardless of how it happened, this seat cannot ignore the fact that you two injured Long Zhan on that day!
不多时，龙湛阴郁的面色稍微缓和了些，看向你们的眼光也没有了浓重的杀气。¤After a short while, Long Zhan's gloomy face eased a little, and the heavy killing intent in his eyes towards you also dissipated.
本座乃龙族四长老龙湛，知晓老夫名号也好叫你们做个明白鬼。¤I am Long Zhan, one of the four elders of the Dragon Clan. You may call me by my name or simply refer to me as Elder. Let there be no confusion.
看来你们并非为世仇而来，年轻人。¤It seems that you have come not for a blood feud, young one.
先前被你击退的小龙突然从海中跃出，小声地与面前的龙湛说着什么。¤The little dragon that you previously repelled suddenly leaped out of the sea and whispered something to the dragon Zhan in front of it.
本座乃龙族四长老龙湛，知晓老夫名号也好叫你们做个明白鬼。百里族氏之人心机狡诈，背信弃义，我龙族断不会放过任何一个贼子后人！¤I am one of the four elders of the Dragon Clan, Long Zhan. Whether you call me by my name or not, you better understand who I am. The Baili clan is known for their cunning and treacherous ways. The Dragon Clan will not let any descendant of those thieves go unpunished.
幼龙发出一声悲鸣，你将法宝收回，顺势一掌将它击退。¤The young dragon let out a mournful cry, and you withdrew your artifact, delivering a palm strike that pushed it back.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你没事吧。¤{FirstName} brother, are you okay?
废话少说，真当我不知道你们在碎星岛上打伤龙昌海之事吗！¤Enough talk, do you really think I don't know about the incident where you injured Long Changhai on Shattered Star Island!
百里兄，你看前方海浪中是否有人？¤Baili brother, do you see anyone in the waves ahead?
看样子，此人或许来者不善。¤It seems that this person may not have come with good intentions.
幼龙发出一声悲鸣，你挥剑将它的龙头斩下。¤The young dragon let out a mournful cry as you swung your sword and beheaded it.
果然是龙族！¤It really is the Dragon Clan!
你们权衡之下决定停下灵舟，询问那位修士的意图。¤After considering their options, they decided to stop the spirit boat and inquire about the cultivator's intentions.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，手下留情。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, please spare my subordinates.
灵舟逐渐前行，那人仿佛一直等待着你们般在原地静静地注视着灵舟。¤The spirit boat gradually sailed forward, while the person seemed to be waiting for you as they silently stared at the spirit boat from their position.
你们行至化龙海域深处，白浪翻涌间你似乎看见一人负手立于浪中。¤As you venture deeper into the Shifting Dragon Sea, amidst the churning waves, you catch sight of a figure standing defiantly with arms crossed amidst the frothing sea.
不外乎一战，难不成你我合力还斗不过他一人吗？¤It's just one battle. Surely the two of us can defeat him alone, right?
哎...原本我只是想调查当年家族之事的原委，如和龙族又新添仇恨，实在非我本意。¤Ah... originally, I just wanted to investigate the truth behind the family's past, but if it adds more hate towards the dragon clan, it's truly not my intention.
请问道友可是在海中迷失方向了？¤Fellow Daoist, may I ask if you are lost in the sea and seeking direction?
哈哈哈，好一个不分青红皂白。你们百里族人心机狡诈，背信弃义，在碎星岛对我龙族出手，现在居然还有脸来化龙海撒野？¤Hahaha, what a mess without any distinction. You Baili clan are cunning and deceitful, betraying me and attacking the Dragon Clan on Shattered Star Island. And now you have the nerve to act recklessly in the Shifting Dragon Sea?
火墙也不知何时开始转化为青、苍、赤三色交杂，与之倾轧的玄紫色的神通不像之前还能与之分庭抗礼，而是节节败退，甚至连阵法空间也因承受不住而趋于崩溃。¤The flame wall slowly transformed into a mixture of green, blue, and red colors. The divine skill in dark purple that clashed with it was no longer able to withstand it like before, but instead retreated step by step. Even the array space was on the verge of collapse under the pressure.
你和炎萧为防这魔修偷袭，只好以神识为眼向那玄紫色魔气中探查，不，如今连玄紫色的光芒也消失殆尽，那魔修原在地方只剩下黑暗，张牙舞爪地，像是随时要吞噬你二人的黑暗。¤You and Yan Xiao had to use your soul sense to probe into the mysterious purple magic qi to prevent any sneak strikes from the demonic cultivator. However, now even the purple light has disappeared completely, leaving only darkness where the demonic cultivator lurks. It claws and lurks like a dark abyss ready to devour the both of you.
没有...我又尝试了联系其他人，但都没有回复...就好像，传音符失效了。¤Without... I tried to contact others, but none of them replied... It's as if the sound talisman has stopped working.
你在自言自语时，一道算不上虚弱但带着些疲惫的声音出现在你耳边。¤When you were muttering to yourself, a voice that was not weak but somewhat tired appeared in your ear.
转过身来，刚好看见炎萧终于是因长时间高强度战斗结束，而因此绷紧的精神也突然放松，乃至昏迷过去倒向海中。¤Turning around, I just saw Yan Xiao finally relax after a long period of high-intensity combat, causing his tense mind to suddenly loosen, to the point of passing out and falling into the sea.
至于天魔眼，这么久都没出过问题，料想也只是白帝发现了什么苗头，让你去排查下隐患而已。况且回宁州还需要些时日，也不差这一天半日。¤Regarding the Heavenly Devil's Eye, there hasn't been any issues so far. It's likely that the White Emperor discovered some suspicious activity and has tasked you with investigating any potential threats. Besides, it will still take some time to reach Ningzhou, so there's no harm in taking a day or two to fulfill this task.
伴随着那足以破浪分海的神通远去后，一声惨叫传来，这场以少胜多的战斗也是宣告结束。¤After the divine skill that could split the waves and part the seas faded away, a wail was heard, signaling the end of the combat where few triumphed over many.
你废话太多了。¤You talk too much.
一舟俩人，就此离开这片海域。¤A boat, two people, left this sea area.
这天魔道修士虽仗着阵法的威能在战斗时对你造成了些许麻烦，但毕竟综合实力相比你还是差很多，很快便是败下阵来，并在你的猛烈攻势下连元婴都被绞杀，只留残躯无力地掉入海中。¤Although this heavenly demon cult disciple relied on the power of the array and caused some trouble for you in combat, their overall strength was still much inferior to yours. They soon suffered defeat and even their nascent soul was crushed by your fierce attack, leaving only a powerless body that fell into the sea.
疲惫这种状态本不应该出现在元婴修士身上。但，没错，炎萧虽然脱离了昏迷状态，可现在也算不上好过多少。¤Exhaustion is not a state that should appear in a nascent soul cultivator. However, it's true that although Yan Xiao has emerged from his unconscious state, he still can't be considered much better.
这元婴期魔修虽是境界压你一头，但实战能力远不如你，更不用说她与炎萧鏖战已久，早就后继乏力。¤Although this Nascent Soul stage demonic cultivator's cultivation level surpasses yours, her combat ability is far inferior to yours. Not to mention, she has already fought against Yan Xiao for a long time and is already weakened.
你轻笑一声，将下落中的炎萧扛在肩上，随后便是寻一小岛供炎萧修养去了。¤You chuckled, carrying Yan Xiao over your shoulder as he falls down, and then searched for a small island for him to recuperate.
呵，即便你击杀那俩人，但也已经遍体鳞伤，想必此时不过是强弩之末。¤Well, even if you kill those two people, you are already covered in wounds. I'm afraid this is just a last-ditch struggle.
但我此前曾...去过天魔眼，不知...是否于此有关联。¤But I have previously been to the Heavenly Devil's Eye. I don't know if it is related to this.
磔磔磔，我还以为是哪方大能，连我天魔道的闲事都敢管。结果就这点实力？¤Zhe zhe zhe, I thought it was some great power interfering with my Heavenly Demon Cult's affairs. Turns out you only have this much strength?
而炎萧前些时候发现你在战斗中占了上风，也是不在保留，硬抗一记神通后拼着重伤击杀了对敌的一个魔修。¤Yan Xiao noticed earlier that you had gained an advantage in combat, and he did not hold back. He used a divine skill to resist your attack and then managed to kill one of the enemy magic cultivators despite being heavily injured.
你并没有理会这魔修的嘲笑，只是在默默地吸收灵气，试图在被击杀之前再挣扎一番。¤You didn't pay attention to the sneers of this demonic cultivator. Instead, you were silently absorbing qi, hoping to struggle a little longer before being killed.
你晃了晃脑袋，仔细一想炎萧在这大阵之中与三个同阶魔修缠斗如此之久，只怕早已是强弩之末，却还能坚持到现在，换做是你战后的状态只怕也好不到哪去。¤You shook your head and carefully thought about it. Yan Xiao has been fighting against three demon cultivators of the same level in this grand formation for so long, it's likely that he's already at the end of his tether. However, he can still persist until now. If it were you, your status after the battle would probably not be much better.
有回复么？¤Is there a reply?
但你又怎会让他得逞。¤But how could you let him succeed.
炎萧{$ChenHu}，多谢...炎萧{$ChenHu}?¤Yan Xiao{$ChenHu}, thank you... Yan Xiao{$ChenHu}?
先不提这魔修的神通功法诡谲异常，令人难以应对，单是那阵法便已是让你十分头疼。¤Nevermind the enigmatic divine skills of this demonic cultivator, their array alone is a headache-inducing technique.
以至于他说完顿了片刻，像是大病初愈的凡人般，缓了口气才继续说下去。¤So much so that after he finished speaking, he paused for a moment, like an ordinary person who had just recovered from a serious illness, took a breath, and then continued speaking.
（但为何天魔道会知道炎萧{$ChenHu}的行踪呢...）¤(But how did the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciples know about the whereabouts of Yan Xiao {$ChenHu}...)
当你的神识触及到那片黑暗中心时，却什么都没有发现，或者说除浓重到让人不适的魔气外，什么都没有，连阵法都已是支离破碎。¤When your soul sense reached the center of the darkness, you found nothing except for the thick and uncomfortable magic qi. The array has already shattered and broken apart.
（虽说可能只是巧合...但若是我的推测没错，魔门随时会入侵宁州，现在可不能再浪费时间了！得赶紧用传音符通知倪兄或是白帝楼才行！）¤(Even though it may just be a coincidence... If my guess is correct, the Demon Sect may invade Ningzhou at any time. We can't waste any more time! We need to quickly use sound talismans to inform Brother Ni or the White Emperor Pavilion!)
玄紫色魔气疯狂地肆虐着，却被一面夹杂着些许青色的赤色火墙隔离开，无法伤你分毫。¤The profound purple magic qi raged wildly, but it was blocked by a crimson firewall infused with a faint cyan hue, unable to harm you in the slightest.
在天魔眼取出的东西？¤What was taken out of the Heavenly Devil's Eye?
事实也是如此，你凝集自身最后的灵气，一道不起眼的神通穿越火墙而去，伴随着那魔修的一声惨叫和阵法空间的彻底崩圮，这场艰巨的战斗终于是彻底结束了。¤As it turned out, you condensed your last reserves of spiritual energy and utilized a seemingly insignificant divine skill to break through the firewall. Along with the wail of the demonic cultivator and the complete collapse of the array space, this arduous combat finally came to a complete end.
。但事与愿违，仅凭这一击，便让他丧失了抵抗能力，向咆哮着的海面坠去，半途又被炎萧补上几记神通，化作飞灰散去。¤However, things didn't go as planned. With just one strike, he lost his ability to resist and fell towards the roaring sea. Midway, he was struck by several divine skills from Yan Xiao and turned into dust, scattered into the wind.
这魔修本就不是你对手，现下更是没有了阵法加持，很快便是败下阵来，并在你的猛烈攻势下连元婴都被绞杀，只留残躯无力地掉入海中。¤This demon cultivator was never your match, and now without the support of an array, they will soon be defeated. Their nascent soul will be crushed under your fierce attacks, leaving only a powerless body to fall into the sea.
也好。先用传音符联系白帝楼吧。¤All right. Let's use the sound talisman to contact the White Emperor Pavilion first.
虽说事先已经破除那阵法，但这魔修的神通功法诡谲异常，让你不知该如何应对，坚持一会后便是败下阵来。¤Although the array was already dismantled beforehand, this demon cultivator's divine skill technique was incredibly elusive and left you unsure of how to respond. After holding out for a while, you ultimately fell defeated.
你以神识确定那魔修身死后，拖着疲惫的身躯，轻唤炎萧两声，却是无人回答。¤Using your soul sense, you confirmed that the demonic cultivator had died. Exhausted, you softly called out Yan Xiao twice, but received no response.
满不在乎地擦了一把脸上的血痕后，炎萧淡淡地摇了摇头。¤After casually wiping off the bloodstains on his face, Yan Xiao shook his head lightly.
你！你不是...这...这是！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤You! You're not... this... this is!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
最后残留的魔修眼见大势已去，不知是驱动了何种秘法，引动着阵法内的魔气向他奔涌而去。而他的身影也是由之前阴暗难辨渐渐变得玄紫色光芒大盛。¤Finally, the remaining demonic cultivator saw that the situation was lost. He didn't know what kind of secret technique he had used, but he triggered the magic qi in the array and it rushed towards him. And his figure gradually turned into a deep purple color, emitting a bright light that was previously indiscernible in the darkness.
炎萧点点头，表示没有异议。¤Yan Xiao nodded, indicating his agreement without any objection.
（糟了！！）{vpunch=10,0.5}¤(Oh no!!) {vpunch=10,0.5}
炎萧身上本已熄灭的火焰再次腾起而后便冲向黑暗，但显然是之前消耗过大了，之前隔着阵法都能看到的火光，现在却只是如同薄膜一般，堪堪覆盖在他皮肤的表面而已，速度也是不及之前。¤The flames on Yan Xiao's body, which had already been extinguished, rose again and rushed towards the darkness. But it was clear that he had exhausted too much energy earlier. The flames that could be seen even through the array before were now just like a thin film, barely covering the surface of his skin, and the speed was also slower than before.
可能是用于炼制某种丹药吧。¤It may be used to refine some kind of pill.
神识已经感知不到那魔修的气息，应该是成功将他斩杀了。¤My soul sense can no longer detect the aura of that demonic cultivator. It seems that he has been successfully killed.
转过身来，刚好看见炎萧终于是因长时间高强度战斗而昏迷，正倒向海中。¤Turning around, he just happened to see Yan Xiao finally fainting due to prolonged and intense combat, falling backwards into the sea.
以致于他说完顿了片刻，在你有些担心他状态时才挥挥手示意自己还好，而后继续说下去。¤So he paused for a moment after speaking, causing some concern about his condition. However, he waved his hand to indicate that he was fine before continuing.
最后残留的魔修眼见大势已去，躲开炎萧一击后便是要施展秘术离去。¤Finally, the remaining demonic cultivator, seeing that the situation was hopeless, dodged Yan Xiao's attack and was about to use secret arts to escape.
及至重伤的炎萧抽身冲出之时，你们身前的黑暗，以及刚逃出不远的魔修都是被你的神通刺破。¤When the heavily wounded Yan Xiao rushed out, the darkness in front of you and the recently escaped demonic cultivator were both pierced by your divine skill.
于是数次交锋后，很快便败下阵来，连元婴都被绞杀，只留下一朵残躯入海中时产生的浪花，见证着你跨越大境界击杀魔修的壮举。¤After several battles, you quickly fell into defeat, your Nascent Soul being strangled to death. Only a remnant body was left, creating waves in the sea, bearing witness to your heroic feat of crossing a major realm and killing the demonic cultivator.
你并没有理会这魔修的嘲笑，只是在默默地吸收阵法中微薄到难以感应的灵气，试图在被击杀之前再挣扎一番。¤You didn't care about the sneer of this demonic cultivator, silently absorbing the meager spiritual energy in the array that was hard to sense, trying to struggle before being killed.
眼下这情况不如带着昏迷过去的炎萧先修养几日。¤Under current circumstances, it would be best for Yan Xiao, who is in a comatose state, to rest for a few days before proceeding.
没了那阵法，这三个魔修对于你和炎萧来说也不具备人数优势，自然是无法弥补这元婴期与化神期之间的巨大鸿沟。¤Without that array, these three demonic cultivators do not have numerical advantage over you and Yan Xiao, so it is impossible to bridge the huge gap between the Nascent Soul and Void Transformation stages.
一个闪身便是要截去他退路，更不用说人还未至，神通已经临身！¤With a flash, he blocked his retreat, and even before the person arrived, divine skill was already upon him!
不好！他是要跑！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤No good! He's going to run! {vpunch=10,0.5}
嗯，门内老祖此前命我从天魔眼和这雷鸣海寻觅些材料回去，但没说作何用，只说是机密。¤Well, the ancestor inside the sect ordered me earlier to search for some materials from the Heavenly Devil's Eye and Thunder Sea, but didn't say what they were for, only that it was confidential.
而炎萧似乎是有些担心你好心相助却被魔修击杀，以一敌二时不再保留。此前更是硬抗一记神通后拼着重伤击杀了对敌的一个魔修。¤And Yan Xiao seems to be worried that you will be killed by a demonic cultivator while trying to help, so he won't hold back when facing two opponents alone. He even risked serious injury by resisting a divine skill earlier to kill one of the enemy demonic cultivators.
只听“轰”的一声，这神通在你身前猛地爆开。¤You only heard a boom sound, and this divine skill suddenly burst in front of you.
火墙后，你身前，一个浴血的身影挺立于此。¤Behind the firewall, there stands before you a figure drenched in blood.
你将自己此行的目的向炎萧简单地叙述了一番，从白帝派你去天魔眼调查说起，慢慢的，后者的表情也是逐渐凝重起来。待你讲完自己的猜想时，炎萧的脸上早已是寒如冰霜。¤You briefly explained to Yan Xiao the purpose of your trip, starting from being sent by the White Emperor to investigate the Heavenly Demon's Eye. Gradually, Yan Xiao's expression became more serious. By the time you finished sharing your speculation, Yan Xiao's face was as cold as ice.
闻言，炎萧陷入短暂的沉思。¤Upon hearing this, Yan Xiao fell into a brief period of contemplation.
至于天魔眼，这么久都没出过问题，料想也只是白帝发现了什么苗头，让你去排查下隐患而已。况且回宁州还需要些时日，也不差这几日。¤As for the Heavenly Devil's Eye, there haven't been any problems for so long, so I think it's just that the White Emperor has noticed something suspicious and wants you to check for any hidden dangers. Besides, it will take some time to return to Ningzhou, so these few days won't make a difference.
抱歉，我来晚了。¤Sorry, I'm late.
嘴角还挂着淡笑。¤There is a faint smile at the corner of the mouth.
但你在开口之时便是急速凝聚灵气，话音还未落神通早已出手。¤But as soon as you opened your mouth, you rapidly condensed your spiritual energy, and before your words even finished, the divine skill had already been executed.
你猜的没错。但我也不知道自己是如何惹上天魔道的。¤You guessed it right. But I don't know how I got involved with the Heavenly Demon Cult disciples.
别了，多管闲事的...废物。¤Goodbye, meddlesome...waste.
可此前被炎萧救下的你早已缓过气来，虽还有些余力不足，但趁他丧失斗志时补上一刀还是可以做到的。¤You, who were previously saved by Yan Xiao, have already recovered from your injuries. Although you still have some weakness, you can take advantage of his loss of fighting spirit and strike him with another blow.
说是光芒，但阵法内甚至比之前更加昏暗，连元婴修士这种身具移山覆海之能的存在都难以视物。¤They called it a shining light, but within the array it was even darker than before. Even cultivators with the power to move mountains and seas, like the Nascent Soul stage, found it difficult to see.
（天魔道的人不但能在无尽之海上准确地找到他，还派了不止一名元婴修士前来，要么是两方有旧怨，要么...便是炎萧在天魔眼中取出了什么物事，让天魔道分外关心罢。）¤(The Heavenly Demon Cult disciples were not only able to locate him accurately in the Endless Sea, but also sent more than one Nascent Soul cultivator to find him. Either there was an old grudge between the two sides, or... Yan Xiao must have taken out something from the Heavenly Demon's Eye that made the Heavenly Demon Cult particularly concerned.)
（若天魔道表面对中州施压，引玄道宗老祖前往援助，而师兄不在，五行宗门底蕴不出...若是派元婴巅峰强者携什么强力秘宝前来偷袭，仅凭玄道宗只怕麻痹大意之下可能一时三刻间天魔眼深处的封印便会告破。）¤(If the Heavenly Demon Cult puts pressure on Ningzhou and the Xuan Dao Sect's ancestor comes to aid, but Senior Brother is absent and the Five Elements Clan's background is insufficient... If a Nascent Soul peak expert from the Heavenly Demon Cult comes with a powerful secret treasure for a sneak attack, the Xuan Dao Sect may be paralyzed and the seal in the depths of the Heavenly Devil's Eye may be broken in an instant.)
你晃了晃脑袋，仔细一样炎萧在这大阵之中与三个同阶魔修缠斗如此之久，只怕早已是强弩之末，却还能坚持到现在，换做是你只怕早已身死道消。¤You shook your head and carefully observed as Yan Xiao had been fighting against three magic cultivators of the same level in this large formation for a long time. He was probably at the end of his strength, but he could still hold on until now. If it were you, you would have already died.
但显然他并不打算给你任何机会，这魔修周身玄紫芒闪耀之间，将要用来灭杀你的神通已是准备完成，随时准备出手。¤But obviously he has no intention of giving you any chance. The divine skill he is about to use to kill you is ready to be executed, as the dark purple light shines around his body. He is ready to strike at any moment.
那我们只能尽快赶回去了。迟，则生变。¤We can only hurry back as soon as possible. If we're late, things will change.
炎萧忍不住一声怒骂，却引动了自身经络伤势，疼得他一口鲜血夹杂着灵气喷出，气势又萎靡了下去。¤Yan Xiao couldn't help but curse in anger, but it triggered the injuries in his meridians, causing him to spurt out a mouthful of blood mixed with spiritual energy. His momentum also weakened.
炎萧{$ChenHu}，那些天魔道的修士为何会在此围杀...炎萧{$ChenHu}？¤Why are those cultivators from the Heavenly Demon Cult surrounding Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} here?
而远处原本围攻他的两名魔修，此刻已是化为冰柱正落入海中。随之出现的两朵浪花作为他俩存在于世的最后见证，也只是快速地消失在波澜不止的无尽海中。¤And the two demonic cultivators who were besieging him from afar had already turned into ice pillars and fallen into the sea. The two splashes of waves that appeared as their witness in this world also quickly disappeared in the endless sea of waves.
你轻笑一声，拉住正在下落的炎萧，随后便是寻一小岛供炎萧修养去了。¤You chuckled and grabbed Yan Xiao, who was falling down. Then, you searched for a small island for Yan Xiao to cultivate on.
你们从储物袋召唤出灵舟，而后背向那被晕渲成玄紫色的海浪拍打着的深蓝色无尽之海。¤You summon the spirit boat from the storage pouch and set sail towards the endless sea, its dark blue waves crashing against your back as it fades into a deep purple haze.
那魔修终于意识到己方大势已去，转身运起遁术便想要逃亡。¤The demonic cultivator finally realized that the situation was beyond salvaging and turned to use his mobility technique to escape.
你本对自己实力很有自信才选择插手战斗，但这天魔道修士的战斗力却超乎你的想象。¤You were confident in your own strength and chose to engage in combat, but the power of this heavenly demon cult disciple exceeded your imagination.
那阵法虽是有些烦人，但这几个魔修与炎萧鏖战已久，本就已是后力难继，更不用说人数上的些微优势完全无法弥补元婴境和化神境的巨大鸿沟。¤Although the array was somewhat annoying, these few devil cultivators had been fighting fiercely with Yan Xiao for a long time and were already running out of strength. Not to mention that the slight numerical advantage could not make up for the huge gap between the Nascent Soul stage and the Deity Transformation stage.
（炎萧去过天魔眼一事本应只有玄道宗的相关人士知道，若他是为门派奔波，也只是再加上离火门的掌门等人知晓。）¤(The fact that Yan Xiao had been to the Heavenly Devil's Eye should only be known to those related to Xuan Dao Sect. If he had been running errands for the sect, only the Master of Fire Gate Sect and others would know.)
话语落下的同时，一抹玄紫色已是尖啸着向你飞来！¤As the words fell, a flash of deep purple came screaming towards you!
你猜的没错...但我也不太清楚天魔道，为何会在海上追杀我...不但出动多位元婴修士...还步下如此阵法。¤You guessed it right...but I am also not very clear why the heavenly demon cult disciple is chasing me on the sea...not only did they mobilize many nascent soul cultivators...they also set up such an array.
嗯，是极为精纯的灵核，而且此物由于与被封印的天魔息息相关，极为罕见，有些不凡的用处。但我也只是奉命行事，具体有何作用也不太清除。¤Well, it is an extremely pure spiritual core, and this item is closely related to the sealed heavenly demon, making it very rare and it has some extraordinary uses. However, I am just following orders and I am not entirely sure of its specific purpose.
所以天魔道的人并不是盯上你，而是从天魔眼取出的材料。¤Therefore, the heavenly demon cult disciples are not targeting you, but rather extracting materials from the heavenly devil's eye.
我唯一能想到的可能，就是此事与我此前在天魔眼取出的东西有关。¤The only possibility that comes to mind is that this matter is related to what I retrieved from the Heavenly Devil's Eye before.
这次算你走运，但我天魔道不会善罢甘休！¤This time you got lucky, but my heavenly demon cult will not let it go!
经久不息。¤Restless perseverance.
你晃了晃脑袋，只好忍着因在受损经脉中强行吸收并运行灵气带来的不适感，而后强打起精神，将下坠中的炎萧拉住，就近寻一岛屿闭关修养去了。¤You shook your head and could only endure the discomfort caused by forcibly absorbing and running spiritual energy while your meridians were damaged. Then, you forced yourself to stay alert, caught Yan Xiao who was falling, and searched for an island nearby to cultivate and recuperate.
（不无可能，但宁州古迹中历经了恒如真人的叛变后，宁州众派曾严厉排查奸细，如今时隔不久，只怕没那么容易再次被渗透。）¤(It's not impossible, but after the rebellion of Paragon Eternal Harmony in the Ningzhou Ancient Ruin, the various sects in Ningzhou conducted a rigorous investigation to root out any traitors. Now, not long after, it's unlikely that they could be infiltrated so easily again.)
眼下你尚还灵气枯竭，刚才的挣扎并未为你补充多少灵气，甚至不足以苟住一个脆弱的灵气屏障。只能眼睁睁地看着这催命符箓般的神通急速地缩短这并不太长的距离!¤Currently, your spiritual energy is still depleted. The struggle earlier did not replenish much of your spiritual energy, not even enough to sustain a fragile qi barrier. You can only watch helplessly as this divine skill, which resembles a death warrant, rapidly shortens the not-so-long distance!
（凌轩师兄曾希望我去调查天魔眼，我只道是他发现了什么端倪，希望我去排查下隐患。但玄道宗老祖偶然离开，炎萧去过天魔眼后又遭遇袭击，让我感觉事情恐怕没那么简单。）¤(Senior Brother Ling Xuan once asked me to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye. I thought he had discovered some clues and wanted me to check for hidden dangers. But then the Xuan Dao Sect founder accidentally left, and after Yan Xiao went to the Heavenly Devil's Eye, he was attacked. This makes me feel like things are not so easy.)
你点点头，而后从储物袋中掏出传音符，将神识探入其中，熟稔地找出倪旭欣留下的神识印记后，便是发送了一段简短的提醒。¤You nod, then take out a sound talisman from the storage pouch. You use your soul sense to locate the imprint left by Ni Xuxin, and send a brief reminder.
不如我先联系白帝楼倪旭欣兄弟，让他们提防着些天魔道。然后我们慢慢赶回宁州，不然以炎萧{$ChenHao}现在的伤势，即便回到宁州只怕也难以展现全部实力。¤Let me first contact Brother Ni Xuxin from White Emperor Pavilion and have them be on guard against the Heavenly Demon Cult disciples. Then we can slowly make our way back to Ningzhou. Otherwise, with Yan Xiao's injuries, even if we return to Ningzhou, he may not be able to display his full strength. 
哼，玄道宗的修士平时是趾高气扬了些，但这天魔道真以为我宁州无人不成？¤Hmph, the Xuan Dao Sect cultivators may be arrogant, but does the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciple think that no one in Ningzhou can stand up to them?
那魔修显然是低估了你的实力，竟想硬抗这一击，而后遁去¤That demon cultivator clearly underestimated your strength, attempting to withstand this attack before fleeing.
趁着炎萧说话的功夫，你也开始沉思。¤While Yan Xiao spoke, you also began to ponder.
近乎等同于你走向陨落的距离！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤It's almost the distance you walk towards your own downfall! {vpunch=10,0.5}
这元婴期天魔道修士即便是仗着阵法的威能，在你手下也不过坚持得久一点而已。数次交锋后很快便败下阵来，连元婴都被绞杀，只留下一朵残躯入海中时产生的浪花，见证着你跨越大境界击杀魔修的壮举。¤This nascent soul stage heavenly demon cult disciple can only hold out a little longer under the power of the array, even when fighting against you. After several clashes, he was quickly defeated, and even his nascent soul was crushed, leaving only a splash of waves from the remains that fell into the sea, witnessing your glorious feat of crossing a major realm to kill a demonic cultivator.
我怎么会惧你！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤How could I fear you! {vpunch=10,0.5}
留下那玄紫色的海浪冲刷着的小岛。¤Leave behind the small island washed by the deep purple waves.
嗯，由我来控制灵舟吧，炎萧{$ChenHu}还是尽快疗伤比较好。¤Mmm, let me control the Spirit Boat. It's best for Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} to heal as soon as possible.
于是轻描淡写地，未等魔修再伤炎萧分毫便已是全都被你解决。¤So casually, before the demonic cultivator could even harm Yan Xiao in the slightest, you had already resolved everything.
（至于天魔道为何知晓炎萧的行踪...）¤(As for why the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciples knew Yan Xiao's whereabouts...)
{FirstName}道友，有什么事么？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, is there something you need?
没想到竟被魔门之人钻了空子...这可如何是好......¤I didn't expect to be taken advantage of by someone from the demonic sect... What should I do...
这难道就是我派失传已久的《真元玄典》...！此功法我只在老祖的笔录中窥得一斑，没想到竟能在宁州古迹中觅得...！不过这笔录有些地方已经受到了磨损，恐怕还需要一些时间修复......¤Could this be my sect's long-lost 《True Element's Annals》...! I only glimpsed a fraction of this technique in the founder's writings, but I never thought I would find it in the ancient ruins of Ning Province...! However, certain parts of the writing have been damaged and may require some time to repair...
{FirstName}长老，有什么事么？¤Elder {FirstName}, is there anything you need?
怎么样，马供奉的伤势严重么？¤How is it? Is Guest Elder Ma's injury severe?
我明白...马供奉这次伤及元神，没有数年时间的静养恐怕难以痊愈。¤I understand... Ma Gongfeng's yuan god was injured this time and without several years of recuperation, it may be difficult to fully recover.
这段时间你们要多多留意，一有合适的人选，尽快告知与我。¤During this time, you should pay close attention and inform me as soon as possible if there is a suitable candidate.
马供奉已经服下了长老赐下的丹药，倒是没有性命之忧，只是...¤Ma Guest Elder has already taken the elixir given by the Elder. Although his life is not in danger, there is still...
马供奉既然不能参加比试，那这混元仙体丹他自然也是无福消受了。这南崖城里出没的元婴期高手众多，有此仙丹在手，不愁找不到下一个供奉。¤Since Guest Elder Ma can't participate in the competition, he naturally won't have the chance to enjoy the benefits of the Chaos Immortal Form Pill. There are many Nascent Soul experts in South Cliff City, with this elixir in hand, there's no worry about finding the next Guest Elder.
二长老，那后面的比试该怎么办？马供奉若无法参加比试，别说唐家，恐怕这次连白家的排名都会在我们之前啊。¤Elder Er, what should we do about the upcoming competition? If Guest Elder Ma cannot participate, not to mention the Tang family, I am afraid that even the Bai family will surpass us in rank this time.
你便顺着气息搜寻了一番。在一处岩壁上，你发现了一根根奇特的藤曼，如暴起的青筋一般，沿着藤曼寻去，赫然是一颗如同心脏般的蓝色果实。¤You followed the breath and searched around. On a rock wall, you discovered strange vine-like tendrils, resembling bulging veins. Following the tendrils, you found a blue fruit that was as big as a heart.
所谓化龙劫，便是蛟龙在突破元婴时所引发的一次雷劫。若能成功突破，蛟龙便能精纯血脉，化为真龙。¤The so-called Dragon Transformation Tribulation refers to the thunder tribulation triggered by the Sea Dragon when breaking through the Nascent Soul stage. If successful, the Sea Dragon will purify its bloodline and transform into a true dragon.
原来如此……¤So that's how it is...
路过一处山峰时，你只觉得四周气息不同寻常，但又说不出个所以然。¤Passing by a mountain peak, you only feel that the atmosphere around is unusual, but cannot explain why.
老头，你能感受到这股气息麽？究竟是个什么来头？¤Old man, can you sense this aura? What is its origin?
路过一处山峰时，你只觉得血脉喷张，此处的气息似在唤醒你的血脉。¤Passing by a mountain peak, you suddenly feel your blood boiling as the atmosphere here seems to awaken your bloodline.
这……倒是问到我了。且去四周找找，看能不能寻到什么线索。¤Well...you've stumped me. Let's go look around the area and see if we can find any clues.
化龙劫？那是什么？¤Dragon Tribulation? What is that?
此地竟然有龙皇果！真是不虚此行。¤I can't believe there's a Sovereign Drakefruit here! This trip was definitely worth it.
人类修士唯有突破飞升时才需渡过天劫，没想到蛟龙在金丹突破元婴时便要渡劫了，真是奇妙...¤It is only when human cultivators breakthrough and ascend that they need to face tribulations, but it's surprising that the sea dragon has to face them while breaking through from the golden core to the nascent soul. Truly miraculous...
龙皇果大多生长于龙气充溢之地，而这龙气，乃是蛟龙渡化龙劫时所产生。看来，此地曾是蛟龙渡劫之地，我们感受到的不同寻常的气息，便是所谓龙气了。¤Sovereign drakefruit mostly grows in places where dragon qi is abundant. This dragon qi is produced when sea dragons undergo their tribulation and transform into dragons. It seems that this land was once a place where sea dragons underwent their tribulation. The unusual aura we feel here is what is known as dragon qi.
我猜，鲲族的体型之所以这么大，是因为施展吞噬神通后，体内积攒的灵气太多，而又无法直接炼化的原因。¤I guess that the reason why the Kun Clan has such a large physique is because of the accumulation of spiritual energy in their bodies after using the Devouring divine skill, which cannot be directly refined.
不过你恰好从他的体内破壁而出，等于打破了这鲲族的罩门。寻常修士受这点小伤倒是没什么，但对于这些鲲族来说，就很致命了。¤However, you happened to break through his body and broke the barriers of the Kun clan. It may be a minor injury for ordinary cultivators, but for the Kun clan, it is fatal.
原来如此...体内灵气外泄，元气大伤。看来这浪方大圣是活不成了...¤So it turns out... the spiritual energy is leaking out of their body, causing a great harm to their vital energy. It seems like this Great Sage Langfang won't be able to survive...
哈哈哈，刚刚的大战动静不小，应该有不少修士正往这里赶。要是再不走的话，很快你斩杀浪方大圣的事迹便会传遍整片无尽之海了。¤Hahaha, the commotion from the battle just now was quite significant, and many cultivators should be rushing here. If you don't leave soon, your feat of slaying the Great Sage Langfang will soon spread throughout the endless sea.
浪方巨大的身躯痛苦地翻滚着，在海面掀起数百米高的巨浪。与此同时，他的躯体竟开始以肉眼可见的速度缩小...¤The huge body of Langfang rolled in pain, causing waves hundreds of meters high on the sea's surface. At the same time, his body began to shrink at a speed visible to the naked eye...
听说千流岛有支散修船队非要在四月出海，结果正撞上乱流，十几艘灵舟最后只开回去两艘。¤I heard that in April a fleet of independent cultivators from Myriad Rivers Island insisted on setting sail despite the turbulent waters. In the end, only two spirit boats returned, out of over a dozen that had set out.
疼疼疼，你下手也忒重了点！¤Ouch, ouch, ouch, you're hitting too hard!
啊哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈哈。¤Ah hahahaha.
打不过你咋还跑了呢？¤Why did you run away if you couldn't beat me?
回合结束时若角色灵气数量大于上限，则需要丢弃灵气。\n{color=#d0380a}左键单击{/color}某属性灵气可选择消散一单位灵气。\n{color=#d0380a}右键单击{/color}某属性灵气可批量消散该属性灵气。¤At the end of each round, if a character's spiritual energy exceeds the limit, they must discard it.\nClicking on an attribute spiritual energy with the {color=#d0380a}left mouse button{/color} allows the user to choose to dissipate one unit of spiritual energy.\nClicking on an attribute spiritual energy with the {color=#d0380a}right mouse button{/color} allows the user to dissipate all of that type of spiritual energy in bulk.
宁州古迹内危险重重，希望同门能相互守望。¤Within the Ning Province ancient ruin, there are many dangers. It is hoped that fellow disciples can watch out for each other.
希望此次古迹之行能够找到帮助掌门突破化神之物......¤I hope that this trip to the ancient ruins can help the master find the item to breakthrough deity transformation...
近日总觉得宗门内有些弟子行踪诡异，难道是我多疑了么？¤Recently, I've been feeling that some disciples within the clan have been behaving strangely. Could it be that I'm just being overly suspicious?
荧儿很期待看到你飞升时候的样子呢。¤Ying'er is really looking forward to seeing what you'll look like when you ascend.
真正的飞升，是什么样子的呢...¤What does a true ascension look like...
这妖王着实难缠，还是先准备一番再来吧。¤This demon king is really tough, let's prepare first before coming back.
这妖王着实难缠，赶紧回去复命吧。¤This demon king is really tough, hurry back and report it.
魁首将获得一次前往太虚境参悟的机会。¤The leader will gain an opportunity to travel to the Great Void Dimension for enlightenment.
观战需要缴纳五千灵石作为座次费与客房费，道友确定要观战吗？¤Observing the battle requires a payment of five thousand spirit stones for the seat and guest room fees. Fellow daoist, are you sure you want to observe the battle?
您好，请问需要什么帮助吗？¤Hello, may I assist you with anything?
所有{color=#d0380a}金丹期或元婴期{/color}修士都可以报名参加大会。¤All {color=#d0380a}Golden Core or Nascent Soul stage cultivators{/color} can sign up to participate in the tournament.
现在举办的是每百年才有一次的{color=#d0380a}天机大比{/color}，由我天机阁主阁举办。¤Currently being held is the {color=#d0380a}Tianji Competition{/color} that only takes place once every hundred years, hosted by the main pavilion of the {color=#d0380a}Heaven's Secrets Pavilion{/color}.
前辈这边请。¤Senior, please come this way.
前十将获得一些仙缘石与一些灵石。前二十也会有一些灵石奖励。¤The top ten will gain some immortal stones and some spirit stones. The top twenty will also receive some spirit stone rewards.
比赛将采用天机阁独创的赛制——{color=#d0380a}天机轮{/color}。¤The competition will adopt the unique format created by the Heavens Secrets Pavilion, called {color=#d0380a}Heavenly Machine Round{/color}.
另外，排名前十位的选手，将会被记录在{color=#d0380a}天机榜{/color}上。¤In addition, the top ten contestants will be recorded on the Heavenly Machine ranking board. Make sure to preserve the use of {color=#d0380a} and {/color}.
前辈……请问您是要观赛吗？¤Senior... may I ask if you're here to watch the match?
天机阁将为金丹期或元婴期修士观战准备特殊席位，阁下这边请。¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion has prepared special seats for cultivators in the Golden Core or Nascent Soul stages to observe the battle. Please follow me to your seats.
除第一轮是随机抽签决定对战情况外，剩下的轮次中每个人都会遇到与自己实力相近的对手。¤In each round after the first, where the matchups are determined by random draw, every participant will face an opponent who is of similar strength to themselves. Any non-Chinese characters in the text will be ignored, with no further explanation of any specific keywords.
所有参赛者在比赛期间都{color=#d0380a}禁用任何武器、防具、法宝与丹药{/color}。¤All participants are {color=#d0380a}prohibited from using any weapons, defence gear, artifacts, and elixirs{/color} during the competition.
抱歉，只有境界达到金丹期或元婴期才有资格报名。¤Sorry, only those who have reached the Golden Core or Nascent Soul realm are eligible to sign up.
道友有什么想了解的？¤Fellow Daoist, what would you like to know?
除开参赛者实力必须为金丹期或元婴期之外，参赛费需十万灵石，观战的座位也需五千灵石。¤Apart from the requirement of contestants to have either a Golden Core or Nascent Soul cultivation level, the tournament registration fee is 100,000 spirit stones and spectator seats cost 5,000 spirit stones.
天机轮一共会举行{color=#d0380a}六轮{/color}比试，并且每轮都{color=#d0380a}不会有人被淘汰{/color}，任何修士都可以打满六轮。¤The Heavenly Machine tournament will hold a total of {color=#d0380a}six rounds{/color}, and {color=#d0380a}no one will be eliminated{/color} in each round. Any cultivator can participate in all six rounds.
还有什么事么？¤Anything else?
道友，这些灵石可不够观战。¤Fellow daoist, these spirit stones are not enough to watch the battle.
需要缴纳十万灵石作为参赛费，道友确定要参赛吗？¤Do you confirm your participation in the competition? Note that you need to pay 100,000 spirit stones as an entry fee, fellow daoist.
我们会记录每位选手的{color=#d0380a}胜场数{/color}，以及他们战胜过的{color=#d0380a}对手的胜场总数{/color}并记作{color=#d0380a}天机点{/color}，并根据这两个数据编排对战场次，最终的排名也是根据这个得出的。¤We will keep track of each player's number of {color=#d0380a}victories{/color}, as well as the total number of victories of their {color=#d0380a}defeated opponents{/color}, which will be recorded as {color=#d0380a}heavenly machine points{/color}. Based on these two pieces of information, we will arrange the battles and determine the final ranking.
执事¤Steward
还有...放我外门的师兄弟们一马吧，那些事儿都是他带着总坛的人做的，外门弟子都不知情，留我玄古门一脉传承。¤Also... spare my outer disciples, those matters were all done by him and the headquarters' people. Outer disciples were not aware of them, leave the legacy of my profound ancient sect.
他点名要的。说是为了他师傅吧。¤He named it. He said it was for his master.
轩岚诺，曾经的玄古门首席，掌门弟子，被骗的傻子。现在嘛就是个叛徒。¤Xuan Lannuo, the former chief disciple of the Profound Ancient Sect and the disciple of the master, is now a fool who was deceived and turned into a traitor.
那人就在大殿之内，道友还望记得的承诺。¤That person is inside the main hall, fellow daoist please remember the promise.
你为什么要跟我说这些？¤Why are you telling me these things?
被困在此地精炼麒麟血，从豹麟兽精血中获得麒麟血，但护法在此法上推陈出新进一步精炼可让品阶再上一层。¤Trapped here refining the blood of the Qilin, gaining it from the blood of the Panther-Lion Beast. However, by innovating this method, the guardian can refine it further to advance the classes to level 1.
别着急拒绝，你们离火门既然来到此地，必然是冲着他来的，那我们目前不冲突。¤Don't be in a rush to refuse. Since you Fire Gate Sect have come to this place, you must be here for him. At the moment, there is no conflict between us.
我们都曾以为那位大护法是为了研发炼妖散的志同道合之辈，也是我玄古门中兴之人，但是看错了。¤We all thought that the great protector was a kindred spirit in the development of the demon refining powder and also a person responsible for the revival of our profound ancient sect, but we were wrong.
以你的修为，你不自己动手？¤With your cultivation, you're not going to take action yourself?
玄古门的高徒，倒是一身古神教的神通，道友也算是博学。¤The top disciple of the Profound Ancient Sect is quite skilled in the Divine Skills of the Ancient God Sect. Fellow Daoist, he is also quite knowledgeable.
你想我做什么？¤What do you want me to do?
阵法运转，空间一阵波动此人和阵中的精血都不见了。¤As the formation activated, the space undulated and both the person and the essence of blood within the formation disappeared. Use of the Array technique may have been involved in this phenomenon.
何必逞口舌之利？我时间不多了，你想问就问吧。¤Why bother with verbal disputes? I don't have much time left, so just ask what you want to ask.
被骗？\n¤Deceived?
杀了他...救出我的师傅。¤Kill him... Save my master.
在下有事相托。¤I have a request to make.
他们都在玄古殿。¤They are all in the Xuan Gu Temple.
不敌于你，对方反倒舒了一口气。¤I'm no match for you, the other side breathed a sigh of relief.
你若是答应放我师兄弟一马，这麒麟血我便双手奉上。¤If you agree to let my senior brother go, I will offer you the blood of a Qilin without hesitation.
你若是不允，那人就要得偿所愿了。¤If you do not agree, then that person will get what they want.
深种魔神蛊，我就是个提线木偶。¤I am just a puppet controlled by the deep-seeded devil god gu.
我为什么要帮你？¤Why should I help you?
之前和师傅醉心于炼妖散的研究，希望帮助师傅获得那蜕凡化神的一线生机，也中了此人暗算。¤Before, I was devoted to researching the effects of demon refining powder with my master, hoping to help him gain a chance at deity transformation. However, we fell victim to this person's covert plot.
咳咳，呼~终于要结束了么。¤Ahem, finally it's about to end.
提炼麒麟血是为了什么？¤What is the purpose of refining Qilin's blood?
师傅错了，我们都错了。¤Master was wrong, we were all wrong.
焦师兄上一届宗门大比就打进了前四，要不是遇上了大师兄，肯定也能进前二的。我看他这一次一定对夺魁势在必得啊！¤Senior Brother Jiao made it to the top four in the previous clan competition. If it wasn't for encountering Dashi Xiong, he could have made it to the top two for sure. I think he is determined to win the championship this time!
索性这次大比已经拿到了筑基丹，也算有所收获。¤This time the grand competition has already obtained the foundation pill, which can be considered a harvest.
{FirstName}{shidi}实力也不容小觑啊，我看他也很有机会夺魁。¤{FirstName} {shidi}'s strength is not to be underestimated, I think he has a good chance to win.
刚刚比试的结果都已经出来了，那么第四轮比试，就由{FirstName}{LastName}对阵焦飞。¤The results of the previous round of competition have already been announced. Therefore, for the fourth round, {FirstName}{LastName} will be pitted against Jiao Fei.
嗯，这个叫焦飞的年轻人气息内敛，步调平稳，看来修为已经达到炼气后期的巅峰了，不好对付哟。¤Hmm, this young man named Jiao Fei is restrained in his aura, moves steadily, it seems that his cultivation has already reached the peak of late qi refining, not easy to deal with.
那便有劳总管了…¤That will trouble the overseer...
若按照五十人来算，大比一共会举行{color=#d0380a}六轮{/color}比试，并且始终都{color=#d0380a}不会有人被淘汰{/color}，每位修士都可以打满六轮。¤If we calculate by fifty people, there will be a total of {color=#d0380a}six rounds{/color} in the big competition, and {color=#d0380a}no one will be eliminated{/color} throughout. Each cultivator can participate in all six rounds.
“竟然还有这一层考虑在内…看来天机阁这边也是下足了功夫。”¤Surprisingly, they even took this level into consideration... It seems that the staff of the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion really put in a lot of effort.
推开门，一间不算太大、但各项装饰皆精致异常的迎宾室便映入眼帘。¤Pushing open the door, a not-too-big but exquisitely decorated reception room greeted his eyes.
那我定然是不服。他要是吃一颗丹药，我就吃两颗，他要是吃十颗，我就吃二十颗，看谁拼的过谁。¤Then I definitely won't stand for it. If he eats one pill, I'll eat two. If he eats ten pills, I'll eat twenty pills and see who can outlast who.
你要是觉得太过复杂，只需要知道选手赢的场次越多、赢的对手越强，你的名次便越靠前就好，其他的交给我们天机阁便是。¤If you find it too complicated, just know that the more matches a participant wins and the stronger their opponents, the higher their rank will be. Leave the rest to us at the Heavens Secrets Pavilion.
另外，排名前十位的选手，将会被记录在{color=#d0380a}天机榜{/color}上，被往来之人所仰望。¤In addition, the top ten contestants will be recorded on the heavenly machine list {color=#d0380a}天机榜{/color}, and admired by visitors.
一来，一般散修面对手持纯阳法宝的富家弟子时，就算二人本身实力相近，也根本毫无招架之力。¤When facing rich family disciples wielding pure yang magic weapons, ordinary cultivators without a sect are defenseless even if their strengths are similar.
你虽有些不好意思，但奈何盛情难却。¤Although you may feel a little embarrassed, it's hard to refuse such a warm hospitality.
原来是{FirstName}道友，欢迎！¤Ah, so it's fellow daoist {FirstName}! Welcome!
在下便是天机阁总管，二位想必是第一次来参加大比，可有什么想了解的？¤I am the manager of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion. I assume you both are here for the first time to participate in the competition. Is there anything you would like to know?
你们穿过长廊，走到一扇精致的门前，挂牌上写着“贵宾室”三个字。¤You walk through a long corridor and arrive at a delicate door with a sign reading Guest Room in three words.
也就是说{color=#d0380a}赢的场次越多，遇到的对手也就越强{/color}，反之{color=#d0380a}输的场次越多，遇到的对手也就越弱{/color}。¤In other words, {color=#d0380a}the more victories you have, the stronger your opponents will be{/color}, whereas {color=#d0380a}the more losses you have, the weaker your opponents will be{/color}.
天机榜便是天机大比会场前的那面石壁，道友一看便知。¤The Tianji List refers to the stone wall in front of the Tianji Competition venue, Fellow Daoist can tell at a glance.
没事，这笔灵石记在我们家名下就好了，咱们就只管观战吧！（反正也是我爹的灵石）¤It's alright, we can just put this spirit stone under our family name. Let's just enjoy the show! (After all, it's my dad's spirit stone.)
会场中央的太极图案上均匀地摆放了六座擂台，呈正六边形。其中央的主台则是天机阁主持所用。¤In the center of the venue, a taiji diagram was evenly distributed with six arenas arranged in a regular hexagon shape. The main arena in the center was presided over by the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion.
不碍事，看我的！¤Doesn't matter, watch me!
呵呵，规矩始终还是规矩，阁下还是先筹到十万灵石为好。¤Hehe, rules are rules. It's still better for you to first gather a hundred thousand spirit stones, sir.
不错，若是能在观战途中参悟个一星半点，这等机缘可不是想买就能买得到的。¤Not bad, if one could comprehend even a little bit during the observation, this kind of opportunity cannot be bought just by wanting it.
我观摩一二便好。¤I just need to observe a few times.
比赛就在明日举行，你们且歇息一晚，准备准备吧。¤The competition will be held tomorrow. Rest tonight and prepare yourselves.
天机轮？那是什么赛制？¤The Heavenly Machine Wheel? What kind of competition format is that?
无妨，道友若打定了主意，到接引处报名即可。¤No problem, fellow daoist. If you've made up your mind, you can sign up at the reception desk.
说罢，他便走到前面，开始为你们带路。¤Having said that, he then walked to the front and began to lead the way for you all.
并且金丹胜元婴历来也是大会的最大看点之一。¤Moreover, the contest between the golden cores and nascent souls has always been one of the biggest highlights of the event.
大赛之初本没有这项规定。但后来发生了两种情况，都是我们想极力避免的。¤At the beginning of the competition, there was no such rule. However, later two situations occurred, both of which we tried our best to avoid.
若有幸能参悟到此境的玄妙之处，对突破化神而言可是大有裨益。¤If one is fortunate enough to comprehend the subtleties of this state, it would be greatly beneficial for their breakthrough in deity transformation.
我爹之前还在大院里弄了个剑形灵模想撑撑场面，后来发现太耗灵石，不如放几把真的剑在那，就换下来了。¤My father previously created a sword-shaped spirit model in the courtyard to show off, but later found that it was consuming too many spirit stones. So, he replaced it with a few actual swords instead.
在下想先考虑一二，再作决断。¤I would like to consider it carefully before making a decision.
总管接过倪旭欣递来的黑色天机令，用神识留下印记后便还了回去。¤The supervisor took the black Tianji Order handed to him by Ni Xuxin, imprinted it with his soul sense, and returned it back.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，来都来了，不如一同观战吧，看不出门道也要看个热闹不是？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, since you're here, why not join me in watching the battle? Even if you don't understand the techniques, it's still exciting to watch, isn't it?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你既然已经金丹期了，不如报名参赛玩玩！¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, since you have reached the golden core stage, why not sign up for the competition and have some fun?
不错。此等大会可是实打实的百年一遇，若不好好观摩学习一番，岂不是抱憾而归？¤Not bad. This kind of grand meeting is a once-in-a-century opportunity. If we don't observe and learn carefully, wouldn't we regret it?
道友既然已经了解的差不多了，可有何打算？¤Fellow Daoist, now that you've mostly understood, what is your plan?
一位看起来十分沉稳的中年修士微笑着向你们走来。¤A middle-aged cultivator with a calm demeanor walked towards you with a gentle smile.
我虽有此意，但是这观战费着实有点贵……¤Although I have this intention, the cost of watching this battle is truly quite expensive...
这……竟然是灵模？天机阁当真是财大气粗啊。¤This... is actually a spiritual model? The Heavens Secrets Pavilion is truly rich and powerful.
擂台外密密麻麻地布满了黑、白色的小点，并且不断地有白点变成黑点，看样子是在选定座次。¤Outside the arena, there are densely packed black and white dots that are constantly changing. It seems that they are selecting seats.
除此之外，若是能夺得大比前十，六品材料，六品秘籍，六品药方等有价无市的绝世珍宝都不在话下。¤In addition, if one could obtain a spot in the top ten of the grand competition, sixth grade materials, sixth grade secret manuals, sixth grade medicinal formulas and other priceless treasures would be easily obtainable.
他拿着天机令对着一旁的天机阁执事只是晃了一晃，那人便毕恭毕敬地走了过来。¤He held the Tianji Order and shook it in front of the deacon of the Heaven's Secrets Pavilion who was standing nearby, and the person respectfully walked over.
若没有排进前十，前二十名也会有一些灵石奖励，至少算是能挣回报名费了。¤If you don't make it into the top ten, there will still be some spirit stone rewards for the top twenty. At least you can earn back your registration fee.
好说，好说。二位想必是第一次来参加大比，可有什么想了解的？¤Sure, sure. I assume you both are here for the first time to participate in the Grand Competition. Is there something you want to know?
更有甚者，一场比赛中双方水平相差无几，僵持不下后，竟变成了丹药的消耗战。还好比赛最后被阁主强行中断，否则以他们服下的丹药量，非得双双毒发身亡不可。¤Furthermore, in a closely contested match where both sides were evenly matched, they ended up in a battle of consuming medicine. Fortunately, the match was forcefully interrupted by the sect leader at the end. Otherwise, with the amount of medicine they had taken, they would have both suffered death by poisoning.
好，那便谢过总管了。¤Okay, then thank you, manager.
不错，当初由于服用丹药一事，便有许多修士不服气，找上门来理论。¤Not bad. Because of the incident with taking the pill, many cultivators came to argue about it, feeling dissatisfied.
太虚境乃是一处由天机阁掌管的秘境。¤The Great Void Dimension is a secret realm under the jurisdiction of the Heavenly Machine Pavilion.
哈哈哈哈哈，真当是自古英雄出少年，这里便预祝道友能在大赛上取得一个好名次了！¤Hahaha, it's really true that heroes come from the young generation. Fellow daoist, I wish you will achieve a good ranking in the competition!
内务执事¤Household Steward
自然是为了能展现出选手的真正实力。¤Nature is meant to showcase the true strength of the competitors.
首先，夺得魁首之人，将得到一次参悟太虚境的机会。¤Firstly, the person who wins the top spot will have the opportunity to comprehend the Great Void Dimension.
你们随他穿过大厅长廊，走到一扇精致的门前，挂牌上写着“贵宾室”三个字。¤You followed him through the grand hall and long corridor, arriving at a delicately designed door with a sign that read 'VIP Room'.
我虽有此意，但是这报名费着实有点贵……¤Although I have this intention, the registration fee is truly quite expensive...
那便预祝阁下取得一个好的名次了。¤Then I wish you good luck in achieving a good ranking.
原来是倪家的朋友，欢迎！¤Originally a friend of the Ni family, welcome!
之后经内阁讨论，又修订了数次，才有了如今的规矩。¤After discussion by the cabinet, it was revised several times before it became the current rules.
为保证比赛的公平，所有参赛者在比赛期间都{color=#d0380a}禁用任何武器、防具、法宝与丹药{/color}。¤To ensure a fair competition, all participants are {color=#d0380a}prohibited from using any weapons, defense gear, artifacts, or elixirs{/color} during the competition.
在下便是天机阁总管，不知二位有何贵干？¤I am the manager of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion. May I know what brings you here?
那又该如何保证每轮都遇到与自己实力相近的对手？¤How can one ensure meeting opponents with similar strength in every round?
比试于明日开始，道友且去休息室调整状态罢。¤The competition will begin tomorrow. Fellow daoist, please go to the lounge to adjust your status.
道友届时只需前来观战即可，其余的交给我们天机阁便好。¤Fellow Daoists only need to come to watch the battle, and leave the rest to our Heavenly Secrets Pavilion.
我们会记录每位选手的{color=#d0380a}胜场数{/color}，以及他们战胜过的{color=#d0380a}对手的胜场总数{/color}并记为{color=#d0380a}天机点{/color}，并根据这些编排对战场次，以及决定最终排名。¤We will keep track of each player's number of {color=#d0380a}victories{/color} as well as the total number of {color=#d0380a}victories of their defeated opponents{/color} and count them as {color=#d0380a}heavenly machine points{/color}. Based on these points, we will arrange the battles and determine the final rankings.
只有这样，金丹修士前来参赛时才会掂量掂量自己的实力，毕竟十万灵石也不是一个小数目，有自信挣回本的，自然是金丹期的佼佼者。¤Only through this can the golden core cultivators who come to participate in the competition measure their own strength. After all, a hundred thousand spirit stones is not a small amount, and those confident in making a profit are naturally the elite of the golden core stage.
灵模是一种特殊的法宝，可以将灵气凝聚起来，模仿成别的东西。¤Lingmo is a special artifact that can condense spiritual energy and imitate other things.
二来，若对手明显弱于道友，却能通过服用丹药取胜，想来道友一定不会服气吧。¤Secondly, if the opponent is obviously weaker than fellow daoist, but manages to win by taking medicine, I believe fellow daoist would not be convinced.
届时，阁下只需于接引阁报名参赛便好。¤At that time, you only need to register for the competition at the Access Pavilion.
传言天机阁老祖在机缘巧合之下参悟此境之后，只道“如神游太虚，妙不可言”，故得名“太虚境”。¤Legend has it that after fortuitously comprehending this realm, the founder of the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion proclaimed, It's like wandering through the Tai Xu, indescribably wonderful, and thus it was named the Great Void Dimension.
没事，这笔灵石记在我们家名下就好了，你就只管上吧！（反正也是我爹的灵石）¤It's alright, just put this spirit stone under our family's name, you can proceed with your business. (Anyway, it's my dad's spirit stone.)
呵呵，道友若是想试试身手，我们自然欢迎。¤Hehe, fellow daoist, if you would like to test your skills, we would naturally welcome it.
那便有劳总管了。¤Then it's up to you, Chief Manager.
二位既然已经了解的差不多了，可有何打算？¤Since the two of you already have a rough understanding, what are your plans?
天机榜？¤The Heavenly Machine List?
两位贵宾，这边请。¤Two distinguished guests, please follow me this way.
确实巧妙，只是照这架势，一时半会恐怕还轮不到我们。¤Indeed, it's clever. But judging from the current situation, it seems we might not have a chance for a while.
道友想必是第一次来参加大比，可有什么想了解的？¤Fellow Daoist, I presume this is your first time participating in the Grand Competition. Is there anything you would like to know?
你可别告诉别人，这天机令其实是我偷拿我爸的。当初便想着来天机阁说不定能派上用场，就带上了，没想到真的有用。¤Don't tell anyone, but this tianji order was actually stolen from my dad. I brought it along when I came to the heavens secrets pavilion, thinking that it might come in handy, and it actually did.
既然来此，自然是要与各路高手比试比试。¤Since I'm here, naturally I want to compete with various experts.
只可惜古往今来，能参悟此境者已是十不足一，此后突破化神之人更是寥寥无几，所以具体能有多少收获，全看个人造化了。¤Unfortunately, throughout history, those who can comprehend this realm are few and far between. Furthermore, those who can breakthrough deity transformation are even rarer. Therefore, the amount of gain one can have depends on individual luck.
公平起见，比赛将采用天机阁独创的赛制——{color=#d0380a}天机轮{/color}。¤For fairness, the competition will adopt the unique format created by the Heavens Secrets Pavilion {color=#d0380a}The Heavenly Machine Round{/color}.
若门槛太低，都是些烂芋充数的货色，想必也吸引不了这么多人前来观战吧。¤If the threshold is too low, they are just a bunch of mediocre players. I'm afraid it won't attract so many people to come and watch.
整个会场被规划地层次分明，极具美感。¤The whole venue was planned with distinct levels and was extremely aesthetically pleasing.
二来，若你的对手明显弱于你，却能通过服用丹药取胜，你当如何应对？¤Secondly, if your opponent is clearly weaker than you, but can win by taking medicine, how would you deal with it?
灵模？¤Spirit Model?
参赛费虽贵，却是大赛质量的保障。¤Although the entry fee is expensive, it is a guarantee for the quality of the big competition.
会场上空漂浮着几座小山，其上零星地散布着一些红色小点，想来是给金丹、元婴期前辈所预留的位置。¤Several small hills floated above the venue, with some scattered red dots on them. They were probably reserved for the senior cultivators in the golden core and nascent soul stages.
不过这灵模用在安排座次上倒的确很合适，也不知道是什么人想出来的。¤However, this spiritual model is indeed very suitable for arranging seating arrangements, but I don't know who came up with it.
途中，倪旭欣悄悄凑到了你的耳边。¤On the way, Ni Xuxin quietly leaned in to your ear.
不错，道友若能在大比上习得个一招半式，也算是不虚此行了。¤Not bad, Fellow Daoist. If you can learn even a move or two during the big competition, this trip will not have been in vain.
这门槛嘛…自然是有。¤There is a threshold for this... naturally.
太虚境？¤Great Void Dimension?
也……没什么重要的事…额…我们只是想来看看比赛来着…¤Also...there's nothing important...um...we just wanted to come and watch the competition.
接引阁大厅内，一座由灵气凝聚而成、青色半透明的微型“会场”赫然悬浮在大殿中央，四周围满了炼气、筑基修士。¤In the Access Pavilion's grand hall, a miniature conference center made of condensed spiritual energy and glowing a translucent cyan was suspended in the center of the room, surrounded by cultivators at the Qi refining and Foundation building stages.
好说，我阁为境界到达金丹期以上的修士留有特等席位，也算是感谢道友的捧场了。¤Sure, my sect has reserved special seats for cultivators who have reached the golden core stage or higher. This is also a way of thanking fellow daoists for their support.
只见倪旭欣咧嘴一笑，从储物袋中掏出了一枚黑色的天机令。¤I saw Ni Xuxin grin and take out a black Tianji Order from a storage pouch.
道友，这边便是接引阁，在此办理大比相关事宜便可。在下还有公务在身，便先行告退了。¤Fellow daoist, this is the Access Pavilion where you can handle all matters related to the Grand Competition. I still have official business to attend to, so I shall take my leave first.
原来是{FirstName}道友与倪家的少主，欢迎！¤It turns out that Fellow Daoist {FirstName} is the young master of the Ni family. Welcome!
大总管¤The Grand Marshal
一位看起来十分沉稳的中年修士微笑着向你走来。¤A middle-aged cultivator, who appears to be calm and steady, walks towards you with a smile on his face.
当初由于服用丹药一事，便有许多修士不服气，找上门来理论。¤Many cultivators came to argue at our doorstep because they were dissatisfied with the fact that we took medicine back then.
为了保证大赛的吸引力，天机阁自然会把最好的东西拿出来。¤To ensure the competition's gravity, the Heavens Secrets Pavilion will naturally bring out the best.
你好不容易战胜了这些剑灵，但那名离火门的弟子却已身死道消。¤You finally managed to defeat these sword spirits, but the disciple of the Fire Gate Sect has already passed away.
这位道友，对不住啦。反正这些东西生不带来死不带去的，与其让它们一直留在这破遗迹里，还不如留给我算了。¤Fellow Daoist, I'm sorry. These things won't bring us any benefit. Instead of leaving them here in this ruined site, I might as well take them and keep them for myself.
炎萧{$ChenHu},我要回武陵城白帝楼报告天魔眼的情况，不知你...¤Yan Xiao {$ChenHu}, I am going back to Wuling City's White Emperor Pavilion to report on the situation of the Heavenly Devil's Eye. I don't know if you...
一边说着，你与炎萧传送出了天魔眼的阵法空间，回到宁州大陆。¤As you spoke, you and Yan Xiao were transported out of the Heavenly Demon Eye's array space and back to the continent of Ningzhou.
好像是武陵城方向！我们快过去！¤It seems like the direction of Wuling City! Let's hurry over!
更何况还有古神教也在觊觎...当年试图渗透我离火门，还蛊惑墨师弟。此仇我炎萧绝不会忘！¤Moreover, the Ancient God Sect is also coveting it... They once attempted to infiltrate my Fire Gate Sect and even manipulated Junior Brother Mo. I, Yan Xiao, will never forget this grudge!
也是。¤Also.
而后便是沉默。¤And then there was silence.
嗯，但天魔眼本身对魔道修士的吸引力也不小，只怕他们依旧不会放弃祸害宁州。¤Well, but the Heavenly Devil's Eye itself also has a great attraction for the demonic cultivators. I'm afraid that they won't give up on harming Ningzhou.
但这片熟悉的大陆，如今在你眼里是如此的陌生。¤But this well-known continent now appears so stranger to you.
我与你顺路，不如一同前往吧。¤Since we're heading in the same direction, why don't we travel together?
魔门...¤Demon's Gate...
这天魔既然被我们解决，对于天魔道来说，应当是个不小的打击。¤Since we have dealt with this heavenly demon, it should be a significant blow to the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciples.
这...这是怎么回事！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤What... what's going on here! {vpunch=10,0.5}
炎萧{$YXChenHao}...¤Yan Xiao {$YXChenHao}... 
不是，一切都没变，只是这狂暴的灵气，以及令人心悸的战斗波动，绝不是宁州寻常能见到的！¤No, everything hasn't changed. It's just the violent spiritual energy and the heart-wrenching combat fluctuations, which are not something you would normally see in Ningzhou!
算了算了，我还是先去其他地方找所需的炼器材料吧，这种事生气也没用。¤Forget it, forget it. I'll just go to other places first to find the refining materials I need. There's no point getting angry over this kind of thing.
啊抱歉，一时兴奋差点怠慢了{FirstName}{$NickName}。¤Ah, sorry, I almost neglected {FirstName}{$NickName} due to excitement.
你拿出储物袋里的3份{$CaiLiaoName}，毫不犹豫地交给了{$NpcName}。¤You take out three portions of {$CaiLiaoName} from your storage pouch and hand them over to {$NpcName} without any hesitation.
多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}，若不是有你帮忙我还不知道该怎么办才好。¤Thank you, {FirstName}{$NickName}, if it weren't for your help, I wouldn't know what I would have done.
那我得抓紧去其他地方寻找炼器材料了，就先告辞了。¤Then I need to hurry and search for refining materials in other places, so I'll take my leave for now.
你面有难色的看向他，后者脸色也是一变。¤You looked at him with a troubled expression, and his face also changed.
竟被人捷足先登了...别让我找到是谁夺我仙缘，不然，哼！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤I'm not going to fall that easily, she muttered. My xian yuan has been stolen. I won't let whoever took it get away with it. Otherwise, hmph! {vpunch=10,0.5}
那我就不推辞了。¤Then I won't refuse.
我赶到那妖兽洞穴时，已经不见{$CaiLiaoName}踪影，抱歉。¤When I arrived at the monster cave, I couldn't find any trace of the spirit beast {$CaiLiaoName}, I'm sorry.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，可有找到{$CaiLiaoName}？¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, have you found {$CaiLiaoName}?
我只需要两份，还有一份{FirstName}{$NickName}自己留着吧。¤I only need two, you can keep one of them for yourself, {FirstName}{$NickName}.
你回到客栈，{$NpcName}果然正在此处焦急地等你的消息，全无平时稳重的样子。¤You returned to the inn, and indeed {$NpcName} was anxiously awaiting your message here, looking nothing like their usually composed self.
他向你点点头，而后离开了客栈。¤He nodded at you, and then left the inn.
{Xiao}，给我等着。¤Xiao, wait for me.
{Xiao}，最重要的材料找到了，等我炼完法宝非得揍他一顿不可。¤{Xiao}, I've found the most important materials. After I finish crafting the artifact, I must give him a beating.
你当然不会说出拿到的{$CaiLiaoName}已经被你另作他用的事实。¤You certainly wouldn't say that the obtained {$CaiLiaoName} has already been repurposed by you,
直到感知到你的气息，他才勉强装出一副云淡风轻的样子。¤He only barely managed to put on a carefree demeanor until sensing your presence.
多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}，这是说好的报酬，尽管拿去吧。¤Thank you {FirstName}{$NickName}, this is the agreed upon reward, feel free to take it.
说罢，他已是阴沉着脸缓步离去。¤After speaking, he left slowly with a gloomy face.
你回到客栈，{$NpcName}果然还在此处焦急地等你的消息。¤You return to the inn, and sure enough, {$NpcName} is anxiously waiting for your news.
不等你回应，{NpcName}就已满脸兴奋地离开了客栈。¤Without waiting for your response, {NpcName} left the inn with great excitement written all over their face.
不等你再说什么，{$NpcName}已然是愤然离开客栈，不知去往何处了。¤Without waiting for you to say anything else, {$NpcName} angrily left the inn, and it's unclear where they went.
感受到你的出现后，他面带微笑地迎了上来。¤After sensing your arrival, he welcomed you with a smile.
后者也是喜形于色，但旋即转为微笑并看向你。¤The latter also smiled happily, but then turned to a smile and looked at you.
这是说好的报酬，{FirstName}{$NickName}请收下。¤This is the promised reward, {FirstName}{$NickName}, please take it.
太好了，所差的材料不多了。¤Great, we only need a few more materials.
再见。¤Goodbye.
唉，此事常有发生，只怪我与它无缘吧，{FirstName}{$NickName}无须自责。¤Ah, this is a common occurrence. You don't have to blame yourself, {FirstName}{$NickName}, it's just our fate.
没能拿到么...¤Couldn't get it...
待你回应后，{NpcName}迅速离开客栈，不知往何处寻觅炼器材料去了。¤After you responded, {NpcName} quickly left the inn, not knowing where to search for refining materials.
我还得去其他地方寻找炼器材料，就不多叨扰道友了，告辞！¤I still need to search for refining materials in other places, so I won't bother you, fellow daoist. Goodbye!
你回到客栈，{$NpcName}果然还在此处等你的消息，与之前没有太多的差别。¤You returned to the inn, and {$NpcName} was indeed still here waiting for your news, not much different from before.
这边只差....¤This side only lacks...
唉，只怪我与它无缘吧。¤Alas, it's just my fate to be incompatible with it.
抱歉。¤Sorry.
后者也是喜形于色并毫不掩饰地用眼神向你表示感谢。¤The latter also looked delighted and didn't hide their gratitude with their eyes.
我还要去寻找其他的炼器材料，就先告辞了。¤I still need to search for other refining materials, so I'll take my leave now.
这是说好的报酬，{FirstName}{$NickName}不用跟{$ZaiXia}客气。¤This is the promised reward, {FirstName}{$NickName} doesn't need to be polite to {$ZaiXia}.
那我便先告辞了。¤Then I will take my leave first.
感受到你的出现后，他急不可耐地迎了上来。¤Feeling your presence, he eagerly rushed over.
嘿嘿，这附近不太平啊。¤Hey, it's not peaceful around here.
浅海域经常能遇到蓬莎巨蟹，想来若是捉几只金丹修为的巨蟹烹成灵肴必定鲜美可口...¤In the shallows, one can often encounter pongsha crabs. If one were to catch some of these crabs with golden cores in their cultivation and cook them into a spiritual delicacy, they would surely be delicious.
请问道友，在下此次猎魔比试排名如何？¤Asking the way fellow daoist, how did I rank in the demon hunting competition this time?
道友名列前茅，可喜可贺。¤Fellow daoist, congratulations on being among the top ranks.
道友，我派正在收集灵核用以布阵，你若是有多余的灵核，可以在我这里换取其它的材料或是丹药。{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow daoist, our sect is currently gathering spirit cores for our formation array. If you have any extra spirit cores, you can exchange them with me for other materials or pills. {w}{w=0.5}
道友成绩中规中矩，有待提高。¤Fellow daoist's performance is average and needs improvement.
道友并未上榜，望下届努力。¤Fellow daoist did not make it onto the list, please strive harder for the next ranking.
选择流派¤Selecting a genre
选择NPC境界¤Choose the NPC's realm.
选择NPC门派¤Choose a sect for your NPC
继续选择¤Continue selecting.
我看到了，前面不远处就有一处裂隙！¤I saw it, there is a rift not far ahead!
这古迹所处的空间极不稳定，和宁州大为不同，我想我们应该能找到不少能够进入那里的裂隙。¤The space around this antique site is extremely unstable and very different from Ningzhou. I think we should be able to find many fissures that can lead us into it.
哈哈哈，这才不是真正的空间乱流，若是两个真正的大位面所产生的乱流，一瞬间就可以把你撕成碎片。¤Hahaha, this is not a real chaotic space-time rift. If it were a rift created by two true major planes, it could tear you to pieces in an instant.
多加小心，就算看起来不远，但附近乱流纵横，未必真能找到一条可以安全抵达那里的通道。¤Be extra careful, even if it doesn't seem far, the surrounding currents are chaotic and it may not be possible to find a safe passage to get there.
没想到位面之间的灵气乱流果真如此恐怖，即便以我如今的修为也难以抵挡。¤I never imagined that the chaotic spiritual energy between the planes would be so terrifying. Even with my current cultivation, it is difficult to resist.
这宁州古迹说到底也是原来位面的一部分，只是坍缩到了一处小空间之中。现在你感受到的这些，恐怕连真实乱流威力的万分之一都不到。¤In the end, these Ningzhou ancient ruins are still a part of the original dimension, just collapsed into a small space. What you feel now is probably not even one percent of the true power of turbulent flow.
你刚一进入空间裂隙，便被一股强大的灵气乱流裹挟着飞出很远的距离。你连忙运转灵气抵御乱流，这才得以稳住身形，抽空观察四周。¤Upon entering the space rift, you were immediately swept away by a powerful chaotic current of spiritual energy. You hastily utilized your own spiritual energy to withstand the turbulence, allowing you to regain your balance and carefully survey your surroundings.
要是能去一次宁州古迹就好了，听说有人在那里找到过几万年前就失传的功法神通。¤It would be great if I could visit the ancient ruins of Ning Province. I heard that some people found lost techniques and divine skills there dating back tens of thousands of years.
想不到那人竟如此难缠，这下真不知怎么面对师父……¤I didn't expect that person to be so difficult to deal with. Now I really don't know how to face my master...
一番较量过后，那人很快便败下阵来。¤After a fierce competition, that person quickly fell defeated.
这下也算是帮师父处理了一些琐事。¤This can be considered as helping Master deal with some trivial matters.
一番较量过后，你并不是那人对手。¤After a competition, you are not a match for that person.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}小心！¤{FirstName} Brother, be careful!
喂，金丹期的帮手岂是你我能应付得了的！¤Hey, the helper in the golden core stage is not something you and I can handle!
......倪兄？¤......Brother Ni?
我好不容易打伤了他，结果这厮居然找来个金丹帮手抓我！¤I finally managed to injure him, but then he went ahead and brought in a golden core expert to capture me!
这次又是什么事？¤What's the matter this time?
每次在我遇难时刻总有{xiongdi}出现，你我简直是天赐良缘！¤Every time I am in a moment of crisis, my {xiongdi} always appear. You and I are truly a match made in heaven, tien chi!
只见倪旭欣祭出飞剑便反身攻了上去，你见他已经拖住了那名金丹修士，连忙头也不回地遁走了。¤I saw Ni Xuxin summon his flying sword and attack the Golden Core cultivator he had already restrained. The cultivator quickly fled without looking back.
哼，{xiaozi}哪里逃！¤Hmph, little brat, where do you think you're running!
别提了，我路见不平，惹了一群截道散修，结果其中一人居然有筑基巅峰修为。¤Don't mention it, I saw some injustices and ended up angering a group of rogue cultivators on the path. One of them surprisingly had cultivation at the peak of the foundation building stage.
可惜天不遂人意，你们还没跑出多远便被强大的神识笼罩。¤Unfortunately, fate was not on their side as they had not run far before they were enveloped by a powerful soul sense.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}留步！！！¤{FirstName} brothers, hold up!!!
快快快！快跑！一会儿他又追上来了！¤Quick, quick, quick! Run! He'll chase after us again soon!
你莫名其妙被卷进了这场追杀，但也只能忙不迭得跟着倪旭欣一起往武陵城的方向逃遁。¤You were inexplicably caught up in this chase and could only hurry along with Ni Xuxin in the direction of Wuling City.
倪兄小心！¤Be careful, Brother Ni!
哼，我可是金丹后期修士，离进阶元婴也只差一筹，林家那筑基丫头居然还不乐意。¤Hmph, I am a cultivator in the late golden core stage, only one step away from advancing to the nascent soul stage, yet that girl from the Lin family who is at the foundation building stage is still unwilling.
来找我何事?¤What brings you here to find me?
客人要有做客的样子，整天在府里瞎晃悠像什么话？¤Guests should behave like guests. What's the point of wandering around the mansion all day?
哪来的小辈，去，去，别在这碍眼。¤What kind of little brat are you? Go away, go away, don't obstruct our view here.
栖云本就负责我们林府与星宫之间的商业往来，这次沐心闯了祸，让星宫的冲虚长老丢了脸面。¤Qiyun was already responsible for the business transactions between our Lin house and the Star Palace. This time, Mu Xin made a mistake and caused the Elder of the Star Palace, Chong Xu, to lose face.
只要我早日突破元婴，嘿嘿嘿¤As long as I can breakthrough to Nascent Soul soon, hehehe.
我们林府和星宫的联姻本就是千年以来的传统，事关重大，由不得沐心这个毛还没有长齐的丫头自己做主。¤The alliance between our Lin House and Star Palace has been a tradition for thousands of years, and it is of great importance. It is not up to Mu Xin, a young girl whose hair hasn't even grown fully, to make decisions.
是你？¤Is it you?
这百年来我们两家之间的联姻大多是老夫一手操办的，还从来没有出过如此纰漏。真是无法无天，无法无天！¤For the past hundred years, the marriage alliance between our two families has mostly been handled by me alone, and never before has there been such a mistake. It's truly lawless, lawless!
难为栖云为了此事还要亲自去星宫登门道歉，老夫也是问心有愧啊。¤It's difficult for Qi Yun to personally apologize to Star Palace for this matter. I also feel guilty in my heart.
没想到这个年代，还有人修习这等邪法，不过这丹药本身倒真的是温养神魂的大补之物。¤I never expected that in this era, there are still people practicing such a wicked method. However, this pill itself is truly a great supplement for nourishing the soul.
道友，若是想要神识精进，不妨试试我这“厉魄丹”。¤.
这丹药.....¤This pill...
确实，古神教对咱们可是“颇为关心”呢。¤Indeed, the Ancient God Sect is quite concerned about us.
这可不是简单的灵虫，是古神教大名鼎鼎的魔神蛊。¤This is not an easy spiritual insect, it is the famous devil god Gu of the ancient god sect.
师傅...¤Master...
他上次伏击我都是十万年前的事儿了。哈哈哈，活得久才是硬道理。¤He ambushed me for the last time ten thousand years ago. Hahaha, living long is the key.
没错，你们再看？¤That's right, are you looking again?
哎呦，很会说话嘛。¤Wow, you're quite the eloquent speaker.
恶饕这老王八蛋死都死了，他这帮徒子徒孙居然还惦记着我这个老人家。¤That old bastard É Tāo is already dead, yet his disciples and grandchildren are still thinking about this old man.
也不能断定，这玄古丹我也是收集过。此前我并无发现什么。¤I cannot be certain, but I have also collected the profound ancient pill. Previously, I did not notice anything unusual about it.
身为离火门弟子，理应为宗门分忧。¤As a fire gate disciple, one should share the burden for the clan.
自我出门到现在，咱们离火门可都不太平呢。¤Ever since I left home, our Fire Gate Sect has been far from peaceful.
言毕，眼前的少年少有的露出凝重之色。¤Speaking, the young man in front of me reveals a rare solemnity.
天星城么，我这就前去一趟，看看这玄古门葫芦里卖的是什么药。¤Starsky City? I'll head there now and see what kind of tricks the Profound Ancient Sect is up to.
说罢，少年的掌中出现了一个黑色的小瓶，一团火焰凭空出现熔化了瓶子，一枚丹药出现在你们眼前。¤After finishing speaking, a black small bottle appeared in the young man's hand. A flame appeared out of nowhere and melted the bottle, revealing a pill in front of your eyes.
嗯，这是我在外面游历的时候，一个古神教小杂鱼身上得到的，不能直接说明什么。¤Well, this is something I obtained from a minor member of the Ancient God Sect during my travels outside. I can't directly explain its usage.
抬眼看去，眼前的并非之前的圣兽而是一名少年，而钟焰则立于其身后。¤Looking up, instead of the holy beast from before, there was a young man in front of me, with Zhong Yan standing behind him.
（...还来？）¤(... still coming?)
但连他们宗门所在都不知道，师弟你时常在外走动，这天星城一行就劳烦你了。¤But even they don't know where their clan is located, junior. Since you often travel outside, we will trouble you to lead this journey to Starsky City. I don't know... you are a member of the clan after all.
你多学学人家，不要一天到晚顶撞我这个老人家~¤You should learn from others and stop offending me, an old person, all day long.
唉，这帮愣头青们真不让我老人家省心。此番也是希望你能帮忙多收集一些玄古门的情报。¤Sigh, these reckless kids really don't make it easy for an old man like me. This time, I hope you can help me collect more information on the Profound Ancient Sect.
少年掌中火焰一起，浮于掌心的小虫便化作飞灰。¤As the flame in the young man's palm grew stronger, the small bug floating in his hand turned into ashes.
是.....¤It is...
目前对他们知之甚少，只知道他们会定时前往天星城坊市售卖丹药，再换取要收材料甚至幼崽回宗门。¤Currently, we know very little about them. We only know that they will go to the Tianxing City Market to sell medicinal herbs at regular intervals, and then exchange them for materials or even young beasts to bring back to their clan.
能看到少年对你挑了挑眉，你也知道了这是哪里来的。¤You can see the young man raise his eyebrow at you, and you also know where this came from.
刚一进门，一阵熟悉的威压笼罩了你。¤As soon as you entered the door, a wave of familiar might suppression enveloped you.
渐渐地火焰中出现一颗黑色小球，毫无灵气波动，即使是钟焰也是面露疑惑。¤Gradually, a small black sphere appeared within the flames, without any spiritual energy fluctuations. Even Zhong Yan looked puzzled.
现在有什么调查方向么？¤Do you have any investigative direction now?
火焰继续燃烧，丹药也开始分崩离析，空气中充满了一股腥甜之气。¤The flames continued to burn, and the medicinal pills began to disintegrate, filling the air with a pungent and sweet scent.
玄古丹竟是一枚虫卵？¤Could the Profound Ancient Pill actually be an insect egg?
嘿嘿，开开玩笑嘛。¤Hey hey, just kidding.
我曾详细的查探过，衡州没有传出恶饕老鬼飞升的消息，看来是寿元已尽了。¤I have thoroughly investigated and it seems that there has been no news of the evil gluttonous ghost's ascension in Hengzhou. It appears that their lifespan has come to an end.
闲话少叙，这一次，我来找你也是有事相托。¤Without further ado, this time I came to seek your assistance.
不过，宗门弟子还是有人服用此物，需要仔细留心。¤However, some members of the clan still consume this substance, so we need to be careful and keep a close eye on it.
玄古丹？¤Profound ancient pill?
仔细想来，这玄古门自衡州逃亡而来行事低调安分，再加之和古神教又是敌对关系，我也是对他们疏于防范了。¤Thinking carefully, the Profound Ancient Sect came to us fleeing from Hengzhou and has been acting low-key and peaceful. Additionally, since they are enemies with the Ancient God Sect, I have been somewhat neglectful in guarding against them.
既是钟师兄所托，自然要尽快完成。¤Since it was entrusted by Senior Brother Zhong, it naturally needs to be completed as soon as possible.
这次闭关阿焰要守着阵法分不开身，多亏了你出去寻找木系灵物供给凤火涅槃阵。¤For this time's cultivation, Ah Yan cannot leave the array of spiritual objects. Thanks to your search for wood-based spiritual objects to supply the Phoenix Fire Nirvana Array.
嘿嘿，看好给你们变个戏法，老人家我也是小小的研究了一下呢。¤Hey, watch me perform a little magic trick for you. I've also done a bit of research as an old man.
我这次出门也还是有不少发现的。¤I still had quite a few discoveries on this trip.
那门内彻查此事就交给我来。我们兵分两路，看看这衡州来人究竟是有何居心。¤I will personally investigate this matter. We will split up and see what the intention of this person from Hengzhou is.
少年手掐法诀，一道灵印注入其中，竟有一只小虫破壳而出。¤The boy pinched a spell with his hand, injected a spiritual seal into it, and unexpectedly a small insect broke out from its shell.
金虹剑派...真是名不虚传。¤The Golden Rainbow Sword Sect... truly lives up to its reputation.
这次出海收获颇多，道友看看我这里有没有你需要的东西？¤This time we gained a lot during our voyage. Fellow daoist, take a look to see if there's anything you need here?
随便看，随便挑啊。¤Feel free to browse and choose.
听说在采筠阁能买到元婴，甚至化神期海兽的情报。真想看看啊...¤I heard that at Caegyun Pavilion you can buy information on Nascent Souls and even Sea Beasts at the Void Transformation stage. I really want to take a look...
这位道友，来看看有没有什么想要的？¤Hello fellow daoist, have you come to see if there is anything you desire?
这谷内坊市真是热闹，竟然全是修仙者。¤This market inside the valley is really bustling, surprisingly filled with cultivators.
是啊，这里百年前便是如此热闹，那年我们……唉，如今也只剩我一人了。凡人的阳寿，太短暂了。¤Yes, it was bustling here a hundred years ago. That year, we...sigh, now only I am left. Mortal life is too short.
我只当这三只是普通的下等魔，才贸然出手，若我早知道它们是异种魔，也不会身处险境了。¤I thought these three were just ordinary inferior demons, so I acted recklessly. If I had known they were mixed demons, I wouldn't have ended up in such a dangerous situation.
{FirstName}{shidi}好身手。此番我等能活下来，还是多亏了你，这魔物理应归你所有。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, you have great skills. This time, thanks to you, we were able to survive. The spirit beast should rightfully belong to you.
如此甚好。¤Very well.
他叹了一口气。¤He let out a sigh.
此地不宜久留，我等还是先找一偏僻去处落脚为好。¤This place is not suitable for a long stay. We should find a remote place to settle first.
说着，又拿出了两颗疗伤用的丹药给师妹服下。片刻过后，师妹的脸色好转了不少。¤As she spoke, she took out two healing pills and gave them to her sister to take. After a moment, her sister's complexion improved significantly.
既然{$称呼}执意如此，在下便不过多劝说了。不如留下传音符，以便日后联系？¤Since {$称呼} is so determined, I won't try to persuade any further. How about we leave a sound talisman behind to stay in touch in the future?
此伤虽重，但尚未伤及根本，只需运春草决，数日之内便可痊愈。¤Although the injury is heavy, it has not yet reached the root. It only needs the Spring Grass Art to be operated and it can be cured within a few days.
随后，你们三人便转移到了附近一处较为隐蔽的山洞。能在此处修养，想必不会有什么大碍了。¤Afterward, the three of you moved to a nearby secluded cave. It shouldn't be a problem to cultivate here.
原来是{FirstName}道友，幸会。¤So it was fellow daoist {FirstName}, it's a pleasure to meet you.
嗯，助你在杀魔竞赛上取得一个好名次，后会有期。¤Hmm, I'll help you achieve a good ranking in the demon hunting competition, and we'll meet again in the future.
你观察到，他之前略显慌乱的神色已经消失不见，完全看不出刚刚经历过一场大战。¤You observe that his previously panicked expression has disappeared without a trace, and it is impossible to tell that he just went through a big battle.
交换过传音符后，你便告别离开了此地。¤After exchanging sound talismans, you said your goodbyes and left this place.
这天魔眼的险恶远不止魔物这么简单，若是有人暗中对我等有所图谋，就算此地再隐蔽，也会被找到。¤The danger of the Heavenly Devil's Eye goes far beyond just spirit beasts. If someone has ulterior motives towards us, even if this place is hidden, it will still be found.
既然如此，那便祝愿二位早日康复，后会有期。¤Since that's the case, then I wish both of you a speedy recovery. Till we meet again.
道友好身手。此番我等能活下来，还是多亏了道友，这魔物理应归道友所有。¤Fellow daoist has great skills. We were only able to survive thanks to fellow daoist. This spirit beast should rightfully belong to fellow daoist.
我还是在此等师妹痊愈再作打算罢。¤I will still wait here for my sister to recover before making any plans.
按理说，同辈之间几乎不可能有人能跟踪你们，而不被察觉。不过既然李青麟的立场如此坚定，你也不便过多劝说。¤In theory, it's almost impossible for someone of the same generation to track you without being noticed. However, since Li Qinglin's position is so firm, you can't persuade him too much.
此处极为隐蔽，师妹伤势也有所控制，就算没有你我二人，也定然不会有事的。¤This place is extremely hidden, and the injury of my sister is also under control. Even if it's just the two of us here, there definitely won't be any problems.
李青麟眉头微皱，稍作思索，却还是没有答应。¤Li Qinglin furrowed his eyebrows and pondered for a moment, but ultimately did not agree.
再说各宗不是还有猎魔竞赛之事？若杀魔杀的少了，说不定会令整个宗门蒙羞，难道{$称呼}一点都不在乎？¤Moreover, don't the various clans still have the demon-hunting competition? If we kill too few demons, it might bring shame to the entire clan. Don't you care at all, {$称呼}?
在回应你的同时，李青麟检查起了师妹的伤势。¤While responding to you, Li Qinglin checked Sister's injuries.
以我二人的实力，像之前那些异种魔，定然不是我们的对手。¤With our strength, those mixed demons like before are definitely not our opponents.
听到异种魔的字眼，李青麟的神情隐隐露出些微异样。¤Upon hearing the term mixed demon, Li Qinglin's face displayed a faintly unusual expression.
幸会，在下{FirstName}{LastName}。¤Nice to meet you, I am {FirstName}{LastName}.
战后，你立马投身进对另外两只异种魔的围剿，没过多久，那只魔物也应声倒下。¤After the battle, you immediately joined the siege against the other two mixed demons. It didn't take long before that spirit beast also fell.
既然你师妹已经安顿下来了，我们便继续前往核心区域杀魔罢。¤Since your Sister has already settled down, we will continue to the core area to exterminate demons.
“他如此袒护师妹，难道关系并不一般？也罢，我还是不要多问了。”¤He protects his sister so much, could their relationship be more than just ordinary? Oh well, I better not ask any more questions.
好险，看来还是不要轻易招惹异种魔为好。¤Phew, it's better not to casually provoke mixed demons. That was close.
在下竹山宗李青麟，这位是我的同门师妹，敢问阁下尊姓大名？¤I am Li Qinglin of the Bamboo Mountain Sect, and this here is my fellow disciple sister. May I have the honor of knowing the name of this esteemed guest?
{$称呼}，此地当属天魔眼外围，为何会有如此强大的异种魔出现？难道此地生出了什么变故？¤{$称呼}, this place should belong to the outside of the heavenly demon's eye. Why would there be such a powerful mixed demon appearing here? Could there have been some changes in this place?
至于杀魔竞赛，只是长老们相互打趣的消遣罢了，不值得为之冒险。¤Regarding the Demon-Killing Competition, it's just a leisurely activity for the elders to tease each other. It's not worth taking risks for.
多谢师兄，我好多了。¤Thank you senior brother, I am much better now.
这异样虽然转瞬即逝，不过你却依然有所察觉。¤This strangeness is fleeting, but you are still aware of it.
（这个{color=red}古神教{/color}才是近来的不明修士吗？）¤(Is this {color=red}ancient god sect{/color} the group of cultivators that have been causing trouble recently?)
师弟，你是来参加矿脉巡逻的吗？\n¤Junior, are you here to participate in the patrol of the ore vein?
哼，你可别把我跟古神教的疯子混为一谈。¤Hmph, don't mistake me for one of the lunatics from the Ancient God Sect.
（似乎，探听到不得了的事情，接下来怎么办？）¤(Seems like I've stumbled upon something incredible. What do I do next?)
我这就离开。¤I'm leaving now.
你就是{FirstName}师弟吧，我这就安排你进巡逻班次。记住遇敌之时，示警尤为关键，会有坐镇的内门师兄以及附近的巡逻弟子前来支援的。\n¤Are you {FirstName}'s junior? I will assign you to the patrol team. Remember, when encountering enemies, sounding the alarm is crucial. Senior brothers from the sect and nearby patrol disciples will come to support.
{vpunch=10,0.5}糟糕！¤Oops! {vpunch=10,0.5}
（肉身？)¤(Physical body?)
这都过去20天，除了几个沂山派的杂鱼，这里可以说是风平浪静。\n¤It has been 20 days since then, and except for a few miscellaneous members of the Mt. Yi Sect, it can be said that things have calmed down here.
这是酬劳，30灵石收好了。¤This is your reward, take these 30 spirit stones.
（待我小心查探一番。）\n¤(I'll carefully investigate it first.)
师兄，我是来执行巡逻任务的弟子。\n¤Senior brother, I am a disciple here to carry out patrol quests.
师弟，宗门重地，不要随意走动为好。\n¤Junior, this is an important place for our clan. Please don't wander around casually.
具体的我也不知道，好像是他们一个长老叛逃了。正好趁此机会你们可以抓紧收集“肉参”。¤I don't know the specifics, but it seems that one of the elders has defected. This is a great opportunity for you to quickly collect 'root ginseng'.
古神教？有他们什么事？¤Ancient God Sect? What do they have to do with anything?
此时，你感受到前方有一股隐匿的气息。\n¤At this moment, you sense a hidden presence ahead.
道友，听了这么多，还想走吗？¤Fellow daoist, after hearing so much, do you still want to leave?
切，你还真是小心啊。\n嗯，交给我了。¤Tsk, you really are cautious.
我们怎么行事不用你们指手画脚，不过你们到底求什么？¤How we operate is none of your business, but what exactly are you asking for?
{FirstName}师弟，你还是快点回宗门复命吧。\n¤{FirstName} junior, you should return to the clan and report back as soon as possible.
最近这附近的人是你们的人吧？你们想干什么？这么大的动静，门内已经开始专注了，最近我们都不敢行事了。¤Are the people around here yours recently? What do you want to do? With such a big movement, the door has already become focused. Recently, we dare not take action.
师兄，我明白了。\n¤Senior brother, I understand now.
哈哈哈哈，反正你们师徒也没有别的选择了，到时候就知道了。¤Hahaha, anyway, you and your disciple do not have any other choice, you'll know then.
我不方便动手，你来吧。¤I cannot move my hands, you do it.
嘿嘿嘿，我这里又不少好宝贝。¤Hehehe, I have quite a few good treasures here.
你估计了一下该阵眼的危险程度，觉得有个接应也不错，于是应承下来。¤You estimated the degree of danger of the formation and thought it would be good to have someone else to help, so you agreed to it.
此外，该阵法中灵气过于狂暴，会持续造成冲击。若是{FirstName}{gongzi}灵力耗尽，不如回到在下阵法中略作调整，再行前往。¤Additionally, the array in this formation has an excessively wild spiritual energy that will continue to produce shocks. If {FirstName}{gongzi}'s spiritual power runs out, it is better to return to my formation to make slight adjustments before moving forward.
好，到时候贡献算你一份。¤Okay, then the credit will count as yours when the time comes.
在下疗伤可能要花费一点时间，不如{FirstName}{gongzi}前去关闭阵法核心，在下于此维持阵法接应{FirstName}{gongzi}。¤I may need some time to heal my injuries, why don't {FirstName} and {gongzi} go and shut down the core of the array? I'll stay here to maintain the array and support {FirstName} and {gongzi}.
我输了。¤I lost.
这次不小心遇上两个禾山道的修士，差点就丢了性命。¤This time, I accidentally encountered two cultivators from the Mt. Harvest Sect and almost lost my life.
施工中¤Under construction.
修真之人用{color=#d0380a}神识{/color}便可识人辨物，你这{xiaozi}神识天赋虽然不错，但还没学过什么敛息的法术，刚刚就已经被他们发现了。¤The cultivators can use their {color=#d0380a}soul sense{/color} to recognize people and objects. Although {xiaozi} talent in soul sense is decent, you haven't learned any {color=#d0380a}restraint{/color} spells yet. They've already detected you just now.
走，我们靠近点看看，说不定还能给你捞到点好处。¤Come on, let's get closer and see. Maybe we can even find some benefits for you.
继续攻击！他真气快耗尽了！¤Keep attacking! His true qi is quickly depleting!
你再睡糊涂，就去把那吐纳心法再背个一千遍！¤If you're still drowsy, go and recite the Exhalation Cultivation Technique a thousand more times! 
各位追了我这一路，本少爷也打得累了，不如我们就此别过可好？¤For those who have followed me all the way, this young master is also tired of fighting. How about we part ways here?
前方传来剑气相交的声音...¤The sound of swords clashing could be heard ahead...
放心吧大哥。¤Rest assured, big brother.
那边的{xiongdi}！快救救我！只要救了我，我身上宝贝都是你的！¤Brother over there! Please save me! If you save me, all the treasures on me will be yours!
要是以后传出去，说我魏无极的徒弟筑不了基，岂不是把老夫的脸都给丢尽了！¤If this gets out later and it's said that I, Wei Wuji's disciple, cannot even establish my foundation, wouldn't it disgrace my master's face!
臭{xiaozi}你瞎嘀咕啥呢？¤Stinky {xiaozi}, what are you muttering about?
不错，不错。¤Not bad, not bad.
那些大家族的弟子哪个不是五六岁就开始学习炼气法门，你现在不好好努力，日后要是筑不了基，岂不是把老夫的脸都给丢尽了！¤Which disciple from those big clans didn't start learning qi refining techniques at the age of five or six? If you don't work hard now, and in the future you can't even establish your foundation, won't you be disrespecting me, your elder!
做够梦了没？蠢徒儿起来赶路了！¤Have you finished dreaming? Stupid disciple, get up and let's hit the road!
继续赶路吧，希望能找到几只刚刚产生灵智的妖兽，就当是给你练练手。¤Continue on your way, hoping to find a few spirit beasts that have just gained intelligence. Consider it as a practice.
喂，老头，我们真的要去抓那什么阴磷蟒么？¤Hey, old man, do we really have to catch that umbral boa thing?
不过修行靠的还是自己的努力，昨日我教你的那些修仙者战斗的基础法门你可还记得清楚？¤However, cultivation still relies on one's own efforts. Do you remember clearly the basic combat techniques for cultivators that I taught you yesterday?
有老夫在，你怕甚么？你这{xiaozi}资质平平，根基又差，不多吃点天才地宝的补补，以后想{color=#d0380a}筑基{/color}都难。¤With me around, what do you have to fear? Your aptitude is average and your foundation is weak, without consuming some treasures of heaven and earth for nourishment, it will be difficult for you to even build a foundation in the future, {xiaozi}.
修真之人用{color=#d0380a}神识{/color}便可识人辨物，你这{xiaozi}神识也忒弱，又不懂什么敛息的法术，刚刚就已经被他们发现了。¤Cultivators use their {color=#d0380a}soul sense{/color} to recognize people and things. Your {xiaozi} soul sense is too weak and you don't even know the {color=#d0380a}restraint{/color} spell. You've already been discovered by them.
怎么说这也是已经拥有了灵智的妖兽诶，我才学了几天法术，就这几手三脚猫功夫，能对付的了它么？¤How can I deal with this spirit beast? It already has a consciousness. I have only learned a few spells for a few days, and my skills are not yet proficient. Can I handle it?
哪里来的臭杂鱼多管闲事？¤Where did this stinky, interfering fish come from? 
点击地图上与当前所处位置{color=#d0380a}相邻{/color}的路点，以移动至下一地点，待习得高阶遁术{color=#d0380a}御剑飞行{/color}后，即可在宁州大地图上各地点间直线移动。¤Click on the road point {color=#d0380a}adjacent{/color} to your current location on the map to move to the next location. Once you have learned the advanced escape skill {color=#d0380a}Sword Flight{/color}, you can move directly between locations on the Ningzhou map.
{vpunch=10,0.5}咦，老头，前面好像有动静，我们要不要先回避一下？¤{vpunch=10,0.5}Hmm, old man, there seems to be movement ahead, should we retreat first?
朋友，偷听半天了，现在才想跑不觉得太晚了么？¤Friend, you've been eavesdropping for a while now, don't you think it's too late to try and leave now?
唉，你确实是个好苗子，只可惜我没了{color=#d0380a}记忆{/color}，传不了你更多功法，你进境缓慢，我也问心有愧。¤Alas, you are indeed a promising young talent, but unfortunately, I have lost my {color=#d0380a}memory{/color} and cannot pass on more cultivation techniques to you. Your progress is slow, and I am also filled with guilt.
夺人所好可不是正道所为，道友，我来助你！¤Indulging in others' desires is not the way of the righteous path, fellow daoist. I will assist you!
有老夫在，你怕甚么？你这{xiaozi}虽然资质不错，但修行起步太晚。¤Don't be afraid, as long as I'm here. Although your aptitude is decent, {xiaozi}, your cultivation started too late.
（既然都被发现了，还不如主动出手）¤(Since I've been discovered, I might as well take the initiative.) 
（欸！这气息，难道附近还有修仙者？？？）¤Hey! This aura, are there cultivators nearby???
若不是老夫当年有元婴巅峰的修为，这点儿残魂能活一千多年嘛？哼，等老夫恢复了{color=#d0380a}记忆{/color}...¤If it weren't for my cultivation at the peak of Nascent Soul back then, this remnant soul wouldn't have been able to survive for over a thousand years. Hmph, once I recover my {color=#d0380a}memories{/color}...
（低声）谁让您老把那些重要的功法神通都给忘得一干二净的，看来这脸是丢定咯~¤(Whispering) Who let you forget all of those important techniques and divine skills? Looks like you've really lost face.
喂，老头你嘀咕啥呢？¤Hey, old man, what are you mumbling about?
哼，不管你是哪路少爷，坏了我们沂山派的好事，就拿你人头来抵！¤Hmph, no matter which young master you are from, if you ruin the good situation we have at Yishan sect, I will use your head as compensation!
我魏无极栖身此剑数百年，也没见过你这样糟心的徒弟。才多练了这么点灵气，就昏睡到了现在，如此下去，你啥时候才能到筑基期？¤I, Wei Wuji, have lived in this sword for hundreds of years and have never seen such a troubled disciple like you. After only cultivating such a small amount of spiritual energy, you've already been in a coma until now. At this rate, when will you be able to reach Foundation Establishment? 
额，难道他在叫我？¤Oh, is he calling me?
！！！不会吧，那我该咋办？¤Oh no, then what should I do?
嗯，这也难怪。修习这类神通，最重要的还是实战运用。只有在对敌时能灵活使用它们，才算真正的入门。¤Well, that's no surprise. Practicing this kind of divine ability, the most important thing is to use it in actual combat. Only by using them flexibly when facing enemies can one truly enter the realm of mastery.
唔...这几个小朋友倒是有几分本事，是老夫失策了。¤Mmm...these children have a bit of skill, it's my oversight.
那人就交给你去收拾，记住，别留活口！¤That person is left for you to take care of. Remember, don't leave any survivors!
不就是几个炼气期的小朋友在小打小闹，瞧把你给紧张的。¤A few children in the Qi Refining stage playing around, why are you so nervous?
魏老，这也不能怪我啊。从拜您为师到现在，也不过短短几个月，每天不是赶路就是练功，如今勉强进入炼气期，已经很不错了……¤Old Wei, this isn't my fault either. Since becoming your disciple, it has only been a few short months. Every day is either spent on the road or practicing cultivation. Now, barely entering the Qi Refining stage, is already considered quite good...
（惨了，这下怕是凶多吉少……）¤Oh no, this doesn't look good. It's probably more bad than good.
吾乃金虹剑派授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，本次仙资大会就由我来主持。¤I am the instructor elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, {FirstName}{LastName}, and I will be hosting this Immortal Talent Grand Assembly.
呼~诸多琐事，很是麻烦啊，当年大师兄也辛苦了啊~¤Phew~ So many trivial matters, it's really troublesome. Senior brother also worked hard back then~
负责此事的执事示意你人已到齐，你飞至半空中，居高临下的看着下方人群。¤The steward in charge of this matter signaled that everyone had arrived. You flew up to the air and looked down on the crowd below from a high vantage point.
接下来流程就和你当年进入宗门一般无二....¤The procedure from now on is no different than when you first entered as a member of the clan.
诸位既然来到了这里，请务必听清在下所讲的每一句话，这将直接关系到诸位能否进入本门。¤Since you have come here, please listen carefully to every word I say. This will directly affect whether you can enter our sect.
他们出身各有不同，但相同的是眼中的渴望。¤They have different backgrounds but share the same desire in their eyes.
吾乃竹山宗授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，本次招新大会就由我来主持。¤I am the instructor elder of Bamboo Mountain Sect, {FirstName}{LastName}, and I will be the host for this recruitment of newcomers.
当年同批的弟子，现在也仅剩我们寥寥几人罢了。¤Among the disciples of the same year, only a few of us are left now.
呼~诸多琐事，很是麻烦啊，当年大师姐也辛苦了啊~¤*Sigh* So many trivial matters, it's really troublesome, Senior Sister worked hard back then too~
吾乃化尘教授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，小友你通过了入门测试，现在就由我来为你测试灵根。¤I am Elder of the Shifting Sand Sect, Instructor {FirstName} {LastName}. Young friend, you have passed the entrance test, and now it's my turn to test your spiritual root.
是不是看着他们想到了当年的自己？¤Did seeing them make you think of your past self?
哈哈哈，只是有点感慨罢了，一晃眼已经加入宗门这么久了，但入门好像又在昨日。¤Hahaha, just feeling a little sentimental. It's been quite a while since I joined a member of the clan, but it feels like I only just started yesterday.
接下来流程就和你之前组织的招新会一般无二....¤Next, the process will be the same as the recruitment of newcomers that you organized before.
不感慨了，先办正事吧。¤No more lamenting, let's take care of business first.
凡是天灵根和双灵根资质道友，请先站出来吧。¤Any fellow daoist with heavenly spirit root or double spirit root aptitude, please step forward.
吾乃竹山宗授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，本次招新大会就由我来.....¤I am Elder {FirstName} {LastName} of the Bamboo Mountain Sect and I will be in charge of the recruitment of newcomers for this event.
最后仅有数人被带到你面前。¤Finally, only a few people were brought before you.
你飞至半空中，居高临下的看着下方人群。¤You fly up into the air and look down on the crowd below from a high vantage point.
广场上一阵骚动，过了一好阵也没人出列。¤There was a commotion on the square, but after a while, no one came forward.
{FirstName}长老，开始每次宗门招新大会么？¤Elder {FirstName}, is it time for the recruitment of newcomers at our clan gathering?
剩下的人只要能通过我们擂台的比试，一样可以成为我们竹山宗的外门弟子。¤The remaining individuals only need to pass our arena's test to become outer disciples of our Bamboo Mountain Sect.
在宗门执事和外门弟子的安排下，很多人熙熙攘攘的进入了宗门。¤Under the arrangements of the sect deacons and the outer disciples, many people bustlingly entered the clan.
吾乃金虹剑派授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，本次仙资大会就由我来主持...¤I am the instructor elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, {FirstName}{LastName}, and I will be presiding over this Immortal Resources Grand Assembly.
下方的人群在宗门执事的引导下纷纷踏上了那考验心性的火焰之路。¤The crowd below followed the guidance of the sect deacons and one by one stepped onto the path of flames, testing their willpower.
负责此事的执事将通过考验人带到你面前。¤The steward in charge will bring the person who passed the test before you.
我们金虹剑派的仙资大会，无论年龄性别，但凡身具灵根者皆可以来养剑池前进行测试。¤We, the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, hold the Immortal Talent Conference, where anyone with spiritual root, regardless of age or gender, can come to the sword pond for testing.
你飞至半空中，居高临下的看着下方人群在宗门执事的引导下纷纷踏上了那考验心性的火焰之路。¤You flew into mid-air, overlooking the crowd below as they followed the guidance of the sect deacons and stepped onto the Flame Path to test their willpower as members of the clan.
我派...¤My sect...
吾乃星河剑派授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，本次招新大会就由我来主持。¤I am Elder {FirstName}{LastName} of Celestial River Sword Sect, and I will be hosting this year's Recruitment of Newcomers ceremony.
是啊，漫漫仙途，长生难觅啊。¤Yes, on the long and winding path of immortality, eternal life is hard to come by.
负责此事的执事示意你人已到齐，你飞至半空中置身于剑河之内，居高临下的看着下方人群。¤The steward in charge of this matter signaled that everyone has arrived. You fly to the middle of the Sword River and look down at the people below from a high vantage point.
{xiaozi}？发什么呆啊？¤{Young Master}? What are you staring at?
能够在大阵之中坚持下来，并得到灵剑认可之人，就有资格成为我派外门弟子。至于能否得到灵剑的认可，就看各位的悟性了。¤Those who are able to withstand the array and gain the recognition of the Spirit Sword are qualified to become outer disciples of our sect. As for whether or not you can gain the recognition of the Spirit Sword, it all depends on your comprehension.
他们中既有普通的凡人，也有血气充盈的先天武者，甚至也不乏已经初入仙途的炼气期修士。¤Among them were ordinary mortals as well as martial artists who were abundant in vital energy, and even some cultivators in the qi refining stage who had already embarked on the path of immortality.
吾乃离火门授业长老{FirstName}{LastName}，你们即已通过考验便是我离火门弟子....¤I am Elder {FirstName}{LastName} of the Fire Gate Sect. Since you have passed the test, you are now disciples of the Fire Gate.
他们之中大部分人难以忍受高温的炙烤便选择的了放弃，之后自有宗门弟子将他们带离。¤Most of them couldn't bear the scorching heat and chose to give up, and then disciples from the clan will take them away.
最后仅有数人完成了试炼被带到你面前。¤In the end, only a few people completed the trial and were brought before you.
看着他们你陷入了回忆...¤Watching them, you were plunged into memories...
有事没事还总想着打扰我睡...疗伤，真是火大。¤For no reason, he always wants to disturb me while I'm sleeping...it's so annoying.
{size=31}而且中州还有师兄坐镇，天魔道那帮混蛋至少得留下一个化神坐镇宗门。{/size}¤{size=31}Moreover, Ningzhou also has a senior brother presiding, and those bastards from the Heavenly Demon Cult must at least leave one deity transformation as a member of the clan. {/size}
你见混元子和火麒麟大有要吵起来的架势，便朝明山散人点了点头，笑着离开了。¤You saw the primordial child and the fire Qilin getting ready to argue, so you nodded to Ming Mountain Scatterer and left with a smile.
我代师兄多谢诸位愿前来观礼。¤I, on behalf of my senior brother, thank everyone for coming to witness this ceremony.
我倒是有些担心，毕竟...算了不必涨他人威风。¤I am a bit worried, after all... forget it, there's no need to boost someone else's prestige.
可惜混元子即便不用灵气增幅，他的声音也已经占据了整片岛屿。任你离开，一人一兽互揭老底的争吵声也还是对你纠缠不休，一时间岛上满是快活的气氛。¤Unfortunately, even without the amplification of spiritual energy, the voice of the Primordial Child has already occupied the entire island. Even if you leave, the arguments between people and beasts exposing each other's secrets will still haunt you, and for a while, the island is filled with a festive atmosphere.
一人一兽互揭老底的争吵声不绝于耳，一时间岛上满是快活的气氛。¤The sound of arguments where everyone exposed each other's secrets continued endlessly, creating a joyful atmosphere on the island.
我看也是，那古神教也就一个化神修士，实力还很一般，只敢在背后搞些邪门歪道。¤I agree, that Ancient God Sect only has one Deity Transformation cultivator, and their strength is average at best. They only dare to use some occult methods behind others' backs.
你向正在谈天论地的三人组走去。¤You walk towards the trio who are chatting away.
这和我知道的可不一样，若不是这位{daoyou}与我离火门炎萧长老相助，只怕上次你就中了调虎离山之计失守天魔眼了。¤This is different from what I knew. If it wasn't for {daoyou} and the help of Elder Yan Xiao from the Fire Gate Sect, I'm afraid that last time you would have fallen for the Heavenly Devil's Eye trap and lost your position.
{size=31}这{xiaozi}可是凌老儿的人，宁州谁还不知道我和凌老儿同气连枝！{/size}¤{size=31}This {xiaozi} is one of Ling Lao-er's people. In Ningzhou, who doesn't know that we are as close as brothers!{/size}
{size=31}有什么好谢的，凌老儿的计划虽是冒险了点，但我看还是能行的。{/size}¤{size=31}There's nothing to thank me for. Although Elder Ling's plan may be risky, I believe it can still work. {/size}
见过诸位前辈，多谢诸位愿前来观礼。¤I have seen my senior fellow cultivators, thank you all for coming to witness this ceremony.
{size=31}哼，他们有什么可威风的，敢不敢前来夺剑还不一定呢。我玄道宗镇守天魔眼何止千载，天魔道有占过上风么？{/size}¤{size=31}Hmph, what's so impressive about them? They dare to come and snatch the sword, but who knows if they can actually do it. My Xuan Dao Sect has guarded the Heavenly Demon's Eye for thousands of years, has the Heavenly Demon Cult ever had the upper hand?{/size}
眼前是一具硕大且破败的尸骸，源源不断死气四溢开来，尸骸上开出一朵渊血冥花。¤Before my eyes lay a giant and dilapidated corpse, emitting a constant flow of deathly aura. Abyssal bloodbloom bloomed from the corpse.
不过此地是上古战场、极阴大凶之地，定有此等宝物产出。¤However, this land is an ancient battlefield, a place of extreme yin and great danger, and it's certain that treasures will be produced here.
鲲龙两族一身是宝，但随着时间都毁于一旦了，可惜可惜啊，不过也不算是没有收获。¤The Kun and Dragon clans were once rich treasures, but they were destroyed in an instant with time. What a pity... However, it's not like there weren't any gains.
眼前是一具硕大且破败的龙尸，源源不断死气四溢开来，尸骸上蜿蜒盘旋着一颗枯草。¤In front of me was a huge and dilapidated dragon corpse, with a constantly flowing and breathless death qi emanating from it. A withered blade of grass was winding around the body.
眼前是一具硕大且破败的尸骸，源源不断死气四溢开来，一颗厉魂血珀浮于空中。¤Before my eyes lay a large and dilapidated corpse, emitting a continuous flow of deathly aura. A ravenous soul amber floated in the air.
你眼前巨大的龙骨、鲲骨，空中弥漫着死气。¤Before you stand enormous dragon bones and kun bones, with a suffocating aura of death filling the air.
一股强大的力量将你甩了出去，不知道飞了多久你才稳住身形。无奈你只得继续踏上了旅程。¤A powerful force threw you out, and you don't know how long you flew before stabilizing your body. Helpless, you had to continue on your journey.
他还这么小，我没办法就放下他一个人不管...¤He's still so young, I can't just leave him alone...
是最差的五灵根...对灵气倒是还有微弱的反应，但仅凭自己吐纳恐怕一辈子也入不了门...¤The five spiritual roots are the worst... There is only a faint response to spiritual energy, but relying on one's own tuana, one may never be able to enter the door for a lifetime...
她虽然是笑着，但眼神中却流露出一丝落寞的神情。¤Although she was smiling, there was a hint of loneliness in her eyes.
呼...吸...¤Inhale...Exhale...
咳咳...是先..¤Ahem...let's begin first...
有点凉凉的？莫非是因为第一次引气入体么...¤into the body?
咳咳...我也是才来。你这是在教这孩子引气入体的吐纳法门么？¤Cough cough... I just arrived too. Are you teaching this child the technique of draining qi into the body through tuana?
接下来就要靠他自己努力修炼，才能有所进境了。希望他勤能补拙，不要辜负你对他的一片心意。¤Next, it will depend on his own efforts to cultivate, in order to make progress. I hope he will work hard and not disappoint your good intentions towards him.
小孩：...¤Child: ...
啊！什么人来了？¤Ah! Who's there?
啊...{$TmpTalkString}愿意试试么？那太好了！¤Ah...{$TmpTalkString}, would you be willing to give it a try? That's great!
小孩：好像...有点凉凉的？¤Child: It seems...a bit chilly?
这...我只是恰好路过而已。¤This...I just happened to pass by.
啊！{$TmpTalkString}是什么时候来的？¤Ah! When did {$TmpTalkString} arrive?
啊...是我的要求唐突了。¤Oh... My request was abrupt.
但我好像不是很有教学的天赋...我从小就在星河剑派长大，三四岁时便跟着师姐们一起修炼，好像是在不知不觉间就学会了这些基础的吐纳方法。¤But I don't seem to have a talent for teaching... I grew up in the Celestial River Sword Sect, and when I was three or four years old, I practiced with my senior sisters. I seem to have learned these basic cultivation methods unconsciously through Tuana.
嗯...我相信他一定可以的。¤Hmm... I believe he can definitely do it.
噢...原来是{$TmpTalkString}。抱歉，平日里接触的少，一时竟没有认出你来。¤Oh... So it's {$TmpTalkString}. My apologies, I haven't had much contact with you before and didn't recognize you for a moment.
怎么样，有感觉了么？¤How do you feel?
小孩：呼...¤Child: *breathes out*...
吐惟细细，纳维绵绵，若存若亡，似有似无，方为真息...¤Spit only thinly, take in only softly, exist yet not exist, seeming but not seeming, this is true breath...
很好，记住这种感觉。能够引气入体，乃修炼的第一步。¤Very good, remember this feeling. Being able to drain qi into your body is the first step in cultivation.
你且盘腿坐好，双手阖于丹田之下，跟着我一起吐纳，细细体悟丹田之中的感受。¤Sit cross-legged and place your hands beneath your lower abdomen. Follow me in doing tuana, and sense the feelings within your lower abdomen.
嗯...该从哪里开始呢？¤Um... where should I start?
你跟着我念。¤You follow my lead and recite with me.
是啊，这孩子叫石头，是前些日子我奉命剿灭山贼时救下来的，可惜他的父母都已经...¤Yes, this child's name is Shitou. I saved him when I was ordered to eliminate the bandits some time ago. Unfortunately, his parents have already...
{$TmpTalkString}，你真厉害，居然一下就想出了这么好的办法。¤{$TmpTalkString}, you're really amazing to come up with such a great solution so quickly.
再往前就是我派风雷谷驻地了，{$TmpTalkString}若无要事的话，还是不要在这里逗留了。¤Going further ahead is the residence of my sect, Wind and Thunder Valley. {$TmpTalkString} If you don't have any important matters, it's best not to linger here.
还好这次有你帮我，如果只靠我自己的话...¤It's a good thing you're helping me this time, otherwise I would have to rely on myself...
小孩：吸...¤Child: Suck...
咳咳...看来直接教他口诀好像行不通...¤Ahem... It seems that teaching him the incantation directly might not work...
吹嘘呼吸，吐故纳新。呼...吸...¤Boasting, breathing out, accepting the new. Inhale...exhale...
你继续练习吐纳，等你能够熟练引气入体以后，再根据口诀尝试运转灵气，到时候便可算是入门了。¤You should continue practicing tuana. Once you are proficient in draining qi into your body, try to operate your spiritual energy according to the mantra. That will be considered as an entry-level achievement.
这件事与{$TmpTalkString}本来就没什么关系的...我...我还是自己想办法吧！¤This matter has nothing to do with {$TmpTalkString} in the first place... I... I will handle it myself!
小孩：丹田附近好像有一股暖流，很舒服...¤Child: There seems to be a warm current near my Dantian, it feels very comfortable...
不过自己知道怎么做，和能够教会别人真是完全不一样呢。¤But knowing how to do it yourself is completely different from being able to teach others.
你...是谁？来这里是有什么事么？¤Who are you? Is there something you need here?
是啊。不过凝霜长老说，我们修真者总有一天是要斩断凡尘的。我没有这种牵挂，反倒能够更静心于修炼呢。¤Yes, but Elder Frostglaze said that as cultivators, we will eventually need to sever our mundane ties. I don't have those attachments, so I can focus more on cultivation.
嗯...这基础的吐纳心法你也练了一段时间了。怎么样...有感觉了么？¤Well...you've been practicing the basic tuana cultivation technique for a while now. How's it going...do you feel anything?
小孩：谢谢大哥哥，谢谢白姐姐！我一定会努力修炼的！¤Child: Thank you, big brother and sister Bai! I will definitely work hard in my cultivation!
那孩子有些茫然地看向你。¤That child looked at you with some confusion.
你之前说，你从小就是在星河剑派长大的？¤Did you say earlier that you grew up in the Celestial River Sword Sect?
对了！要把周天灵气汇聚起来。只要能感应到灵气，以后再修炼吐纳之法便可事半功倍了。¤By the way, gather the sky spirit of the meridians. As long as you can sense the sky spirit, practicing the tuana method in the future will be twice as effective.
我派从不允许男性入门，所以我只能偷偷把他带来风雷谷，想教会他一些基础的修炼法门。¤My sect never allows men to join, so I had to secretly bring him to Wind and Thunder Valley to teach him some basic cultivation techniques.
虽然已经教会了这孩子最基础的吐纳法门，不过以他的资质，恐怕日后成就不会很高。¤Although I have already taught this child the most basic Tuana technique, with his aptitude, I am afraid his achievements in the future will not be very high.
（难怪她这么想帮那个孩子...）¤(No wonder she wants to help that child so much...)
啊...是这样的。¤Ah... It is like this.
原来只是风吹的么...¤So it was just the wind blowing...
你拉过那孩子的手，将一丝微弱的灵气输入他的体内。¤You took the child's hand and infused a faint spiritual energy into his body.
小孩：谢谢大姐姐！我一定会努力修炼的！¤Child: Thank you, big sister! I will definitely work hard in my cultivation!
所以，你其实一直不知道自己父母的身份么？¤So, have you actually been in the dark about the identities of your parents all along?
当年魏老是怎么教我的来着...？¤How did Old Wei teach me back then...?
{$TmpTalkString}，你能帮我教教这孩子么？¤{$TmpTalkString}, can you help me teach this child?
太好了，那以后便可以和{$TmpTalkString}多多联系了！¤Great, I can now stay in touch with {$TmpTalkString} more often in the future!
这种事情我也不太擅长，应该帮不了你。¤I'm not very good at this kind of thing, I probably can't help you.
我明白的...但就算以后没法筑基，也多少有些强身健体和延年益寿的功效。¤I understand... But even if I can't build a foundation in the future, it still has some effects on strengthening the body and prolonging longevity.
你运转调息之下，周天灵气都被你尽可能的汇聚于此地。¤As you adjust your breath, the sky spirit from all around is being gathered as much as possible at this location.
听凝霜长老说，我母亲曾经也是星河剑派的弟子，但是生下我以后就独自离开了宗门，也不知去了哪里。¤According to Elder Frostglaze, my mother was once a disciple of the Celestial River Sword Sect, but she left the clan alone after giving birth to me, and I don't know where she went.
小孩：吐惟...细细，呐...呐...？¤Child: Spit, Wei... Xi Xi, na... na...?
对了，我看你似乎是在教这孩子引气入体的吐纳法门么?¤By the way, I see that you seem to be teaching this child the technique of draining qi and breathing exercises to guide qi into the body?
他输了也并不气馁，只是看向你的目光仿佛别有用意。¤He did not feel discouraged even after losing, but his gaze towards you seemed to convey a hidden meaning.
纸上龙飞凤舞地写着几个大字“勿拍，结束后请至公孙府——公孙季”。¤Do not take pictures, after the end, please go to the Gongsun House Gongsun Ji.
你坐回自己的位置继续吃茶，片刻后收到小厮呈上的笺纸。¤You sat back in your seat and continued drinking your tea. After a moment, a maid servant presented you with a note.
我派与星河剑派有诸多渊源，功法神通虽各有特色，却也一脉相承。¤My sect has many connections with the Celestial River Sword Sect. Although our techniques and divine skills have different characteristics, they are still closely related.
所谓师傅领进门，修行在个人...剑道无穷，各人自有各人的领悟。¤As the saying goes, a master can only guide you through the door, but it is up to each individual to cultivate their own path...The way of the sword is endless, and each person has their own enlightenment.
这无尽之海，实在是凶险异常啊！我师弟前些日子第一次出海，不多时便在海上失去了音讯。我此次就是奉师尊之命，前去寻他，唉...¤This endless sea is truly incredibly dangerous! My junior apprentice brother set out to sea a few days ago, and soon lost all contact. I am now on a mission from our master to find him. Sigh...
若出现两位选手胜场与天机点都相同的情况，我们将会记录双方对手的天机点总和作为排名依据。¤If there are two participants who have the same number of wins and heavenly machine points, we will use the total sum of their opponents' heavenly machine points as the ranking criteria.
若道友已经准备妥当，只需前往比试即可。¤If fellow daoist is already prepared, simply go to the competition.
呵呵，擂台上的屏障会检验您体内有无药力，若有的话，则会自动将您体内的药力清除，绝无作弊的可能。¤Hehe, the arena's shield will check for any presence of medicinal power in your body. If detected, it will automatically clear the medicinal power and prevent any possibility of cheating.
道友可还有什么疑问？¤Fellow daoist, do you have any further questions?
你环顾四周，并未在附近发现倪旭欣的身影，想来应当是被错乱的空间传送到了其他什么地方吧...¤You looked around, but didn't find any trace of Ni Xuxin nearby. It seems she must have been transported to some other place by the chaotic spatial rift...
你们这些废物，连个剑阵都破不了，混元子老子没空和你玩。¤You useless lot can't even break a sword array. Chaos, the Primordial Child, doesn't have time to play with you.
说罢，也不管下面的人带着身边人化作血雾飞遁而去。¤After speaking, he didn't care about the people below as they transformed into blood mist and flew away.
前辈不必如此，多亏您及时来援，四象封魔阵毫发无损。¤Senior, there's no need for this. Thanks to your timely arrival, the Four Elephants Demon Sealing Array remains intact.
此番凶险，真是辛苦你了。你能力战元婴期老魔，我此时身无外物，这些了灵石还望道友不要嫌弃。¤This was truly a dangerous task, thank you for your hard work. You were able to battle against an old devil at the Nascent Soul stage, while I have no external resources. I hope that fellow daoist won't mind these Spirit Stones.
倪振东退出剑阵，来到你面前。¤Ni Zhendong stepped out of the sword array and came to your side.
击败了那人后，你想向那名女子询问他们的目的，却发现此人已不见了踪影...¤After defeating that person, you want to ask the woman about their purpose, but find that the person has disappeared without a trace...
你们究竟......¤What exactly are you all...
细想这几日发生的事情，宁王府或许并不像表面看来这么简单。荣华富贵虽好，若无命享受也是白搭。¤Upon careful consideration of recent events, the Ning King's Manor may not be as easy as it appears on the surface. Though wealth and prosperity are desirable, they are meaningless without a fulfilling purpose.
左思右想下，你决定还是趁早离开这滩浑水。¤After much consideration, you decide to leave this muddled water as soon as possible.
呼...还好解决了，没想到弄出这么大动静。¤Phew... fortunately, it was resolved. Didn't expect to cause such a big commotion.
哈哈哈，多谢{$daoyou}相助，这是答应给你的报酬。¤Hahaha, thank you {$daoyou} for your help, this is the reward that I promised to give you.
魔门竟在那时便渗入我教内部...看来此行结束有必要肃整门派了。¤The demonic sect infiltrated our sect at that time... It seems necessary to clean up the sect after this mission is over.
炼心芝...！有了此物，必定可令掌门早日突破！¤Heartrend shroom...! With this, it will surely allow the master to make a breakthrough soon!
天道崩塌，吾有一剑足矣。¤If the heavens collapse, a single sword is enough for me.
天魔眼？区区低等魔物，不足道尔。¤Heavenly Devil's Eye? Pathetic low-level spirit beasts, not worth mentioning.
此后数日，你在百里府中与百里奇切磋斗法，交流悟道，两人都因此而受益匪浅。¤For the following days, you engage in duels and exchange enlightenment with Baili Qi at the Baili Mansion. Both of you greatly benefit from this experience.
闻言百里邑眼中闪过一丝精光，看向你的目光中明显带了几分打量，像是在盘算些什么。¤Upon hearing this, there was a glint in Baili Yi's eyes while he carefully studied you with a calculating gaze, as if pondering something.
广陵城因常有妖兽来袭，城镇外围的居民面容多有惊忧之色。但百里府内并无这种惶惶之感，你随百里奇一路走来，府中和乐安逸，和边陲恍非一城。¤Due to frequent attacks by spirit beasts, the residents around Guangling City often wore worried expressions. However, there was no such anxiety within the Baili Mansion. As you followed Baili Qi along the way, the atmosphere in the mansion and Leyan was peaceful, almost like a different city altogether.
呵呵，难得有与奇儿实力相仿的同龄人，能够一起切磋悟道，对各自的修为精进也很有好处。¤Hehe, it's rare to have someone of the same age with comparable strength as Qier. Being able to duel and gain enlightenment together could greatly benefit our cultivations.
父亲，{FirstName}道友实力不俗，我邀他入府正是为了讨教一二。¤Father, Fellow Daoist {FirstName} has impressive strength. I invited him to our residence to seek advice.
在下{FirstName}{LastName}，见过百里家主。¤I am {FirstName}{LastName}, I have met the head of the Baili family.
{FirstName}道友，请。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, please come.
此乃家父百里邑，也是百里家家主。¤This is my father, Baili Yi, and also the head of the Baili family.
这种微妙的差异使你察觉到一丝异样，却又说不出违和的源头。思虑间你二人已行至百里府大堂，一位相貌中正的中年人端坐堂上。¤This subtle difference made you aware of something peculiar, yet you couldn't pinpoint where the discomfort was coming from. As you pondered, the two of you arrived at the main hall of the Baili Mansion, where a middle-aged man with a dignified appearance was sitting on the throne.
哼，我来会会你。¤Humph, let me teach you a lesson.
难道这宁王年年在那斗法台招募供奉，居然是这等缘由！¤Could it be possible that the Ning King recruits guest elders year after year at the dueling terrace for this reason?!
苍老男声:待我部署一下，今晚再到老地方来找我。¤Old Male Voice: Let me get things in order and come to the old place tonight.
年轻女声：诺！¤Young girl: Yes!
我就继续悄悄跟着她，倒是要看看他们还想耍什么手段...¤I'll continue to secretly follow her and see what tricks they still want to play...
年轻女声：长老此次传唤可有要事？¤Young Woman's Voice: Elder, is there any important matter for me to be summoned this time?
索性发现的早，此时逃走应该还来得及，还是不要再多管闲事了...¤It's better to have discovered this early, I should still be able to escape at this point. It's best not to meddle any further...
苍老男声:宁王那边进展如何？¤Elderly Male Voice: How is the progress on Ning King's side?
年轻女声：新的一批供奉已入住王府，收取他们性命犹如探囊取物，只候长老下令！¤Young woman's voice: A new group of guest elders have moved into the palace, taking their lives as easily as picking fruit from a basket, waiting only for the elder's order!
宁王对此事应该不会一无所知，说不定更是早有勾结...想不到逸风城表面风光霁月，实则烟雾尘天。¤The Ning King should not be oblivious to this matter, perhaps even had colluded beforehand... who would have thought that Yifeng City, while appearing peaceful on the surface, is actually shrouded in smoke and dust.
若只是这样就好了。本来都只当他是个武痴，却没想这魔修跑去个名不见经传的小门派大闹了一番，还灭其满门。后来还是有人前往那门派查看，纠其神通之源，才得以知悉此人竟是血剑宫魔修。¤If only it was that simple. Originally, everyone thought he was just a war fanatic, but they didn't expect this demon cultivator to cause trouble at an unknown sect and annihilate their entire organization. It wasn't until someone investigated the source of his divine skill that they discovered he was actually a demon cultivator from the Blood Sword Palace.
也只能如此了。¤This is all I can do.
血剑宫的魔修？¤Blood Sword Palace's demonic cultivator?
但血剑宫的魔修向来实力强劲，{$ZaiXia}虽对自己的实力有信心，但也不想独自面对这血剑宫邪修。¤However, the demonic cultivators of Blood Sword Palace have always been strong in power. Although {$ZaiXia} has confidence in his own abilities, he also doesn't want to face these evil cultivators of Blood Sword Palace alone.
那我先谢过{FirstName}{$NickName}了。¤Then I'll thank {FirstName}{$NickName} first.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，好久不见。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, long time no see.
道友有何计划？¤Fellow Daoist, what are your plans?
简短地说，就是{$ZaiXia}宗门附近疑似有血剑宫的魔修在四处活动，所以遣我去调查一番。若是寻得其行迹，最好能解决这魔修。¤In short, I, {$ZaiXia}, have been sent to investigate the activity of demonic cultivators suspected to be from the Blood Sword Sect near our clan. If we come across their whereabouts, it is preferable to eliminate them.
嗯，据称那人之前四处找人比试，但因其出手狠辣，鲜有人敢与他切磋。¤Well, it is said that the person had been looking for someone to duel with, but because of their vicious moves, few dared to duel with them.
所以想请{FirstName}{$NickName}与{$ZaiXia}同行。¤Therefore, I would like to ask {FirstName}{$NickName} to travel alongside {$ZaiXia}.
多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}。¤Thank you, {FirstName}{$NickName}.
不知道友此番找我何事？¤I don't know why fellow daoist has come to find me this time?
咳，我目前对于这血剑宫魔修也没有更多消息，所以暂时没有成熟的计划。¤Ahem, I currently have no further information on this Blood Sword Sect demonic cultivator, so there is no mature plan for now.
唉，这小门派又是在{$ZaiXia}宗门左近，为防其加害我派弟子，也只得走上一遭了。唉，真是烦人。\n¤Sigh, this minor sect is located near {$ZaiXia}'s clan. In order to prevent them from harming our disciples, I have no choice but to pay them a visit. Ugh, so annoying.
此类修士虽然少见，但我熟识的一位修士也是如此。躲着点便是了。¤Although this type of cultivator is rare, I know one cultivator who is like this. Just avoid them if possible.
要不，{FirstName}{$NickName}先与我一同去那个小门派察看一番，再做下一步打算？¤How about this, {FirstName}{$NickName}, why don't you come with me to check out that small sect first, and then we can make our next move?
既是如此，我还有任务在身，就不多叨扰道友了。¤Since that's the case, I still have quests to complete. I won't trouble my fellow daoist any further.
自上次一别确实有些时日了。¤It has been a while since we last parted.
诸位，本次宗门大比已决出了前四位弟子，他们都是我们离火门中年轻一辈的精英，肩负着我们离火门的未来。¤Ladies and gentlemen, the top four disciples have been determined in the clan competitions. They are all young elites from our Fire Gate Sect, carrying the future of our sect on their shoulders.
随着一声惨叫，血河老祖已在你的神通之下倒向海面，也不知是死是活。¤With a mournful scream, Patriarch Blood River fell beneath your divine skill and onto the surface of the sea, his fate unknown.
不知从何处传来一道神念攻击，正打在血河老祖身上，疼的他哇哇乱叫。你趁此机会，连忙扭身躲到了众人身后。¤Suddenly, a divine strike came out of nowhere, hitting Patriarch Blood River and causing him to cry out in pain. You quickly took this opportunity to hide behind the others.
面对血河老祖的追击，你已无力调动灵气，只能眼睁睁的看着猩红色充满你的眼帘。¤Facing the pursuit of Patriarch Blood River, you are powerless to mobilize your spiritual energy, and can only watch as a crimson color fills your vision.
历代血剑仙在九州树下的威名，随着你的神通，随着血河伤落向海面，随着几大势力其他化神的惊叹声，出现了不可磨灭的裂痕！¤The reputation of the Blood Sword Immortals throughout the Nine Continents, as well as your divine skill, caused an indelible crack to appear with the blood river falling onto the sea surface and the other deities' astonishment from the major forces.
猝不及防之下，数道猩红色的剑气斩击到你的灵气护罩之上，后者则是以肉眼可见的速度迅速褪色，乃至破碎开来。¤Without warning, several crimson sword qi struck against your spiritual energy shield which rapidly faded and shattered at a visible speed.
但眼下，正道的化神修士们已经落了下风，除了火麒麟外，无一不是勉励在支撑着，也不知能否拖到白帝渡劫完成。¤But now, the deity transformation cultivators of the righteous path have fallen behind. Except for the Fire Qilin, all of them are struggling to hold on, and it's uncertain if they can make it to the completion of the White Emperor's tribulation.
死在血剑仙的剑下是你的荣幸，桀桀桀，上路吧！¤Dying under the Blood Sword Immortal's sword is your honor, hehehe, go ahead!
未等你追击重伤得血河老祖，混元子的大嗓门已是传到你的耳边。¤Before you could pursue the heavily injured Patriarch Blood River, the loud voice of Primordial Child had already reached your ears.
血河可能是在场魔门中最弱的化神，但他毕竟也是一个化神修士。本就不占上风的正道修士们渐渐开始支撑不住。¤Blood River may be the weakest among the demonic sect's transformed deities present, but he is still a cultivator who has undergone deity transformation. The righteous cultivators who were originally in a disadvantageous position gradually began to falter.
半空之上，白帝又是一剑劈开了劫云。但或许是刚刚的心魔劫的确对他产生了一些影响，又或是为了兼顾施展秘术，总之，他的神情也不像刚开始那般从容了。¤In mid-air, the White Emperor swung his sword and split apart the tribulation clouds. However, perhaps the previous Heart Demon Tribulation had some effect on him, or maybe he needed to use Secret Arts, as his expression wasn't as calm as before.
好在你的胜利鼓舞了正道的化神修士们，虽然还没拖到白帝渡劫完成，但至少扭转了被牢牢压制的局面。¤Fortunately, your victory has inspired the cultivators of the righteous path. Although they haven't managed to delay the completion of the White Emperor's tribulation, at least it has turned the tide of the suppressed situation.
果然，血薇仙子的攻势一滞，让原本被打得毫无还手之力的白鹿真人瞬间轻松了不少。¤As expected, the Fairy Crimson Blood's attack faltered, allowing the previously helpless Paragon White Deer to suddenly become much more relaxed.
血剑宫威名在外，没想到麾下却有实力如此不济的化神修士。¤The Blood Sword Palace's reputation precedes it, but it's surprising to find such weak cultivators among its followers who have undergone deity transformation.
{size=31}血亢老狗，养出血河这样的废物，我看你们血剑宫的威风也就到这啦哈哈哈。{/size}¤{size=31}Blood-crazed old dog, raising such a waste like Blood River. I guess the glory of your Blood Sword Palace ends here, hahaha.{/size}
几番交手下，你自知不是血河老祖的对手，连忙躲至众人身后。他见此嚣张的大笑起来，转而又冲向了白鹿真人。¤After a few exchanges, you realized that you were no match for Patriarch Blood River and quickly hid behind the others. He laughed derisively at your cowardice, then turned to charge at Paragon White Deer.
啊啊啊啊啊...¤Ah ah ah ah ah...
即便血剑宫本就不擅防御，即便血河老祖也不例外，即便他未曾展开自己的化神领域，但谁又曾想到堂堂血剑仙竟会输在你一个元婴修士手上！¤Even though the Blood Sword Palace is not known for its defense, and even Patriarch Blood River is no exception, even though he did not activate his Deity Transformation Domain, who would have thought that the esteemed Blood Sword Immortal would lose to a Nascent Soul Cultivator like you!
而混元子虽然被剑气牢牢压制，却仍然大声嘲讽前者，唯恐其他战斗中的化神强者未曾留意你的胜利。¤While the Primordial Child was firmly suppressed by the Sword Qi, he still loudly mocked the former, fearing that other Deity Transformation powerhouses in combat had not taken notice of your victory.
（留神，此人正在用神识试探你。）¤(Be careful, this person is currently probing you with their soul sense.)
你倒不妨进去看看，这剑阵乃是化神剑修所布置，要是能窥得一线，对你也有不小的好处。¤You might as well go in and take a look. This sword array was laid down by a deity transformation sword cultivator. If you can gain even a glimpse, it will be of great benefit to you.
我这里的任务例行维护底层阵法的，唯有内阁成员才能接取，你并不合适。¤The tasks here involve regular maintenance of the underlying arrays, and only members of the inner cabinet can take them. You are not suitable.
以你的阵道修为，还是不要丢人现眼了。¤With your cultivation in array dao, it's better not to embarrass yourself.
你是要前往底层吗？¤Are you going to the lower level?
唉，此事迟迟无人处理，就为阁下破例一次吧。¤Ah, since no one is handling this matter, I'll make an exception for you.
对，我白帝楼底层是我白帝楼核心剑阵。¤Yes, the ground floor of the White Emperor Pavilion is the core sword array of the White Emperor Pavilion.
嗯，阵法是由白帝大人所布置，内置8座剑池用以供能，剑池内部会有灵材凝结，可以用来炼制飞剑。¤Well, the array was set up by White Emperor, with 8 sword pools installed to provide energy. The inside of the sword pools will condense spirit materials that can be used to refine flying swords.
我没有500灵石....¤I don't have 500 spirit stones...
非我白帝楼内阁弟子弟子，需缴纳500灵石。¤If you are not a disciple of the inner court of the White Emperor Pavilion, you need to pay 500 spirit stones.
不过，毕竟是我白帝楼核心阵法，此行就由我与阁下一同前往吧。¤However, since it is my White Emperor Pavilion's core array, I will accompany you on this journey.
说罢，你开始以几块砖石，排布起来。¤After saying that, you begin to arrange several blocks of stone.
你？¤You?
哦？有些门道，一会我送你进入剑阵核心，入阵之后切记不要乱动，梳理好异常的灵力流动就回来复命。¤Oh? There is some trick to this. I'll take you to the heart of the sword array, but once you enter, remember not to move recklessly. Sort out any abnormal flow of spiritual power, then come back and report.
目前，没有什么事情。¤Currently, there is nothing happening.
剑阵？¤Sword Array?
我白帝楼底层阵法青龙剑阵最近法力流转不畅，需要阵道修为初窥门径的内阁成员前往例行维护。¤The array of the Green Dragon Sword at the ground floor of the White Emperor Pavilion has experienced some disruptions in the flow of mana recently. Members of the inner cabinet who have a first glimpse of dao in array cultivation are required to perform routine maintenance.
底层？¤Lowly?
还没等你们说完，阁主的声音便传了过来。¤Before you could finish speaking, the voice of the sect leader came through.
我说，{xiongdi}你也太厉害了吧，这等赛事，竟然一场都没输？¤I have to say, brother, you are too incredible. You haven't lost even a single game in these competitions?
别胡说，我没有！只是这么一比，我不就显得弱爆了吗？！¤Don't talk nonsense, I didn't do it! It's just that if I'm compared like this, wouldn't I look weak?!
我说，{xiongdi}你也太厉害了吧，这等赛事，竟然都打的有来有回？¤I said, brother, you're too powerful. To think that you could go back and forth in such a competition.
谁让你修炼的那么快？也只有在这种时候，我才会觉得我们的差距没有被拉开太多了……¤Who let you cultivate so quickly? Only in times like this do I feel that the gap between us hasn't widened too much...
也只是中等水平而已，谈不上多厉害。¤It's just average and not particularly powerful.
倪兄抬举了，在下只是遇到了些机缘巧合罢了，倪兄日后想必也能有此机缘吧。¤Brother Ni is too kind, it's just some fortuitous coincidence that brought me here. I trust Brother Ni will have similar good fortune in the future.
嘿嘿，其实看到你在台上被暴揍的时候，我还是蛮开心的…¤Hehe, to be honest, I was quite happy to see you getting beaten up on stage...
不久后，随着最后一场比试结束，大会也在众人潮水般的喝彩声中，接近了尾声。而倪旭欣也趁此机会找到了你。¤Shortly after, as the final competition came to an end, the conference also drew to a close amidst the cheering crowds. And Ni Xuxin took this opportunity to find you.
这个…{xiongdi}你也不必灰心…¤Don't be disheartened, my brother...
倪兄，你口口声声说给我加油助威，原来心里还是盼着我输啊？¤Brother Ni, you keep saying 'cheer me on', but you secretly hope that I lose, huh?
你……¤You...
你也太谦虚了吧，我以后要是能登上这擂台，至少都是一百年之后了。¤You're being too modest. If I could ever step onto this arena in the future, it wouldn't be for at least a hundred years.
我说，{xiongdi}你也太厉害了吧，这等赛事，竟然都没怎么输过？¤I say, brother, you're too amazing, you hardly ever lose in such events?
由于你的弃权，之后所有的比试都被判定为负。¤Due to your forfeit, all subsequent competitions have been determined as losses.
你想，我们明明差不多大，你就能来参赛，这本身就很强了，我可连上场的机会都没有…¤You know, we're roughly the same age, and yet you're able to participate in the competition. That in itself is impressive. Meanwhile, I don't even have a chance to go up on stage...
倪兄抬举了，日后倪兄也必定能踏上这个擂台。¤Brother Ni, you have been given praise. In the future, Brother Ni will definitely step onto this arena.
在下龙宫长老，还未请教高姓大名？¤I am an elder of the Dragon Palace. May I learn your esteemed name?
你为何会被纠缠上？¤Why have you been entangled?
我在此地探查九霄雷狱的所在。¤I am here to investigate the location of the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison.
多谢{FirstName}道友救我。¤Thank you, {FirstName} fellow daoist, for saving me.
唉...关于雷鸣海我就知道这么多了。¤Ah...about Thunder Sea, this is all I know.
九霄神雷乃是先天之雷，在其中引雷锻体，可以吸收先天之气精进体道。道友进入其中不断承受天雷就可吸收先天灵气。¤The Nine Heavens Divine Thunder is a pre-existing thunder that, when introduced into the body, forges and refines the physical being. Fellow Daoists who withstand the onslaught of heavenly lightning can absorb pre-existing spiritual energy and further their understanding of Body Dao.
多谢，{FirstName}道友出手相助。¤Thank you, {FirstName} fellow daoist, for your help.
那这善后就由宗门弟子来吧，你我就先回去吧。¤Well then, let the members of the clan handle the aftermath. Let's go back for now.
嗯，看上去是玄骨要走了所以就都被...¤Hmm, it looks like Xuan Gu is going to leave, so they all...
钟焰深吸一口气，平复了一下心情。¤Zhong Yan took a deep breath and calmed down his emotions.
傻鸟和师傅也在等我们的消息。¤Silly Bird and Master are also waiting for our news.
什么！！？？{vpunch=10,0.5}¤What!!?? {vpunch=10,0.5}
其中的豹麟兽已被屠戮殆尽？¤Has the leopard grove beast already been slaughtered to extinction?
{shidi}，怎么了？¤{shidi}, what's wrong?
你眼前一黑，意识逐渐消散...¤You blacked out before your eyes, and your consciousness gradually dissipated...
滚吧，此番就饶你一命。不过下次可就不一定了，哈哈哈哈哈。¤Get lost, I will spare your life this time. But next time may not be the same, hahaha.
还请前辈高抬贵手，饶我一命！¤Please spare my life, senior!
哈哈哈，有人花了{$lingshi}灵石买你的命，我也不过是收钱办事罢了。¤Hahaha, someone spent {$spirit stones} spirit stones to buy your life, I'm just doing a job for money.
好...好险...¤Good...that was close...
在下不知何处得罪了前辈，前辈若有任何要求尽管提来，在下一定尽力满足！¤I don't know where I offended senior. If senior has any requests, please don't hesitate to make them. I will do my best to fulfill them!
此人招式凌厉，出手皆是杀招。你一时之间难以抵挡，眼看就要殒命于此...¤This person's moves are fierce, and every move is a killer move. You are momentarily unable to resist and are about to perish here...
你要能出得起这赏金，那我放你这一马也不是不行。¤If you can afford this reward, then I could let you go.
这...在下实在是拿不出这么多钱...¤I...I really can't come up with so much money, the speaker said.
《冰霜诀》是我派冰系法门，修炼后能够在体表凝结一层冰霜，干扰对手的攻击。¤The 《Ice Age Skill》 is a cultivation technique of our sect's ice element. After cultivating it, one can condense a layer of frost on their body that can disrupt enemy strikes. Level 1 of the skill is already very effective.
本派入门功法有《浪击诀》，《问水剑典》和《冰霜诀》，你想学习哪一个？¤Our sect's basic techniques include the 《Wave Strike Skill》, the 《Water Invoking Sword Manual》, and the 《Ice Age Skill》. Which one would you like to learn?
《浪击诀》是战斗类的功法，修炼后能够提升五行连击后水系法门的伤害。¤《Wave Strike Technique》 is a combat cultivation technique that, when practiced, enhances the damage dealt by water-based techniques following a five-element combo strike.
哈哈，宗门内的资源可不能用灵石换取，只有对宗门做出贡献的弟子才有资格在藏经阁与神兵阁兑换功法及法器，而这寒玉正是弟子们贡献度的体现。¤Haha, the resources within the clan cannot be exchanged for spirit stones. Only disciples who contribute to the clan are eligible to exchange techniques and magic tools in the hidden manual pavilion and the divine warrior pavilion with their contributions reflected by the cold jade.
《问水剑典》是中庸类的功法，想要发挥出它的威力须得搭配藏经阁内的其他神通。¤《Water Invoking Sword Manual》 is a technique in the middle-grade category. To fully unleash its power, it must be combined with other divine skills from the Hidden Manual Pavilion.
多谢师姐指点。¤Thank you senior sister for your guidance.
宗门广场上的{color=#d0380a}告示{/color}栏每隔一段时间会发放宗门任务，{shidi}完成任务后便可获得寒玉。¤On the sect plaza's {color=#d0380a}notice{/color} board, clan missions are issued every once in a while, and as a member of the clan, completing these quests can gain you cold jade.
往年都只有宗门最厉害的几位师姐，才敢到天魔眼的{color=#d0380a}中心区域{/color}猎魔。¤In previous years, only the senior sisters who were the strongest in the clan dared to hunt demons in the central area of the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
{shidi}初来乍到，作为师姐我便私下赠与你一些寒玉，你可小心切莫被长老知晓。¤As an elder, I will give you some cold jade privately since you are new here, my junior sister {shidi}. Be careful not to let the senior elders find out.
我派目前还有授业的有三位长老，分别是冶庚，恒如和鸢本三位前辈，你想了解哪一位？¤Currently, there are three elders who are teaching in our sect. They are Ye Geng, Heng Ru, and Yuan Ben, three senior members. Which one would you like to know more about?
今日之战酣畅淋漓，小友若不急着走，不妨与本座坐而论道，再好好交流一番吧。¤Today's battle was exhilarating. Young friend, if you're not in a hurry to leave, why not have a debate with me and exchange ideas?
今日便到这里了，等小友实力精进些后，再回来找本座罢。¤Today, we'll stop here. Once my young friend's strength has improved, come back and find me again.
哈哈哈，今日之战倒也酣畅淋漓。道友若不急着走，不妨与本座坐而论道，再好好交流一番吧。¤Hahaha, the battle today was truly exhilarating. Fellow daoist, if you're not in a rush to leave, why not debate with me and have a good exchange?
如此甚好，我也正有许多问题想向大圣请教！¤Perfect, I also have many questions I want to learn from the Great Sage!
道友修为精深，本座自问若非以命相搏，并非道友的对手。¤Fellow daoist's cultivation is profound. This humble one, if not willing to risk my life, am not the opponent of fellow daoist.
今日之战酣畅淋漓，道友若不急着走，不妨与本座坐而论道，再好好交流一番吧。¤Today's battle was invigorating and exciting. Fellow daoist, if you're not in a hurry to leave, how about we debate and exchange ideas?
小友修为精深，能以元婴期境界与本座交手而不落下风，实属难得。¤The young friend's cultivation is profound, able to fight on equal ground with this one at the Nascent Soul stage, truly rare.
可惜，可惜...小友修为尚浅，与你交手实在难以尽兴。¤Unfortunately... young friend's cultivation is still shallow, so it's difficult to fully enjoy sparring with you.
大圣修为精深，在下佩服。¤Great Sage's cultivation is profound. I admire you.
小友实力不俗，修为尚且不足元婴期，与本座交手也能不落下风，实属难得。¤The young friend's strength is not bad, their cultivation is not yet at the Nascent Soul stage, but they can still keep up with me in a fight. It's truly rare.
本次盈手露的拍卖已经结束了，仙长若无事也可坐下吃茶。这灵茶取自仙山之巅，初次饮之有清心静气之效。¤The auction for ying hand dew has ended. If the immortal master is free, please sit down and enjoy some tea. This spiritual tea is from the top of the immortal mountain. Drinking it for the first time will have a calming effect on your mind and body.
你点了一杯花茶，掀盖时朵朵花瓣在浅青茶盏中绽开，一股甜香味扑面而来。¤You ordered a cup of flower tea. As you lifted the lid, flower petals bloomed in the light green teacup and a sweet fragrance wafted towards you.
你点了一杯灵茶，掀盖时一股清香携着淡淡的灵气扑面而来。饮罢一杯茶水，你的心境平和了不少。¤You ordered a cup of Spirit Tea, and as you uncovered it, a refreshing aroma accompanied by a trace of spiritual energy hit you in the face. After drinking a cup of tea, your mental state improved significantly.
仙长，我们这灵茶着实珍贵，您这些灵石连沏茶的水都买不起呢。¤Immortal Elder, our spirit tea is truly precious. You can't even afford the water to brew it with your spirit stones.
本次盈手露的拍卖已经结束了，仙长若无事也可坐下吃茶。不过这灵茶对您来讲已经是无用之物，本阁将为您奉上特色的花茶。¤The auction for ying hand dew has ended. Xianzhang can sit down and enjoy some tea if there is nothing else to attend to. However, this spiritual tea is useless to you. This pavilion will offer you unique floral tea instead.
仙长若无事可坐下吃茶，本阁将为您奉上特色的花茶。¤Immortal, if you have nothing to do, please sit down and enjoy some tea. Our sect will serve you our special flower tea.
武陵城正在举办英杰会，凡是40岁以下的炼气期修士皆可参与，报名需要交纳50灵石，道友有兴趣参加么？¤Wuling City is currently holding a Young Hero's Tournament, where any cultivator under the age of 40 at the Qi Refining stage can participate. Those interested in joining must pay a registration fee of 50 spirit stones. Fellow Daoist, are you interested in participating?
作为曾经的英杰会大比冠军，你的出现很快成为了众人的焦点...¤As the former champion of the Young Heroes' Tournament, your appearance quickly became the focus of everyone's attention...
道友，英杰会历来只允许炼气期的年轻修士参加，您还是请回吧。¤Fellow Daoist, the Young Hero's Tournament has always only allowed young cultivators in the Qi Refining stage to participate. Please leave.
哎，囊中羞涩，居然连这点报名费都交不起了...¤Ah, how embarrassing, I can't even afford the registration fee...
道友，你的年龄已经超过40岁了，所以不能参赛。¤Fellow Daoist, you are already over the age of 40, so you cannot participate in the competition.
道友，请在一旁稍等片刻，第一轮的比试就要开始了。¤Fellow Daoist, please wait for a moment on the side. The first round of competition is about to begin.
今年的比试真是精彩。¤This year's competition is really exciting.
来参加英杰会比试的修士，当然都是冲着筑基丹来的。当然，宁州的各大势力也都一直关注着每一届的英杰会比试，争夺那些表现最出色，最有潜力的青年才俊。¤The cultivators who participate in the young hero's tournament are all in it for the foundation pill. Of course, the major forces in Ningzhou have always been watching every iteration of the tournament, competing for the most outstanding and promising young talents.
好好发挥，让我看看你这段时间修炼的成果怎么样！¤Show me your progress in cultivation during this time. Unleash your full potential!
可不？哪有那么容易，凡人之躯融合妖兽血脉本就是一个设想罢了。¤Isn't that right? How could it be so easy? The fusion of human body and spirit beast bloodline is just a concept.
嘶，这半成品不是有问题吗，之前那蛊真人不就直接发狂力竭而亡了吗？¤Hiss, isn't this half-finished product faulty? Didn't the previous expert of the Gu directly go crazy and exhaust all his strength?
嗯，没错以护法之能必然是没问题的。¤Well, there is no doubt that the power of the protector must be unquestionable.
嗯？炼妖散炼成了？听总坛的人说只是小有进展吧。¤Hmm? The demon refining powder has been refined? I've heard that there have only been slight improvements, according to the leaders of the sect.
只是门主大限将至，不得不博取这一线生机。¤Just because the head of the sect is about to pass away, we have to gamble on this slim chance of survival.
门主敢用必然是护法有了解决之法啊。¤The sect leader daring to use it must have a solution to deal with it.
听我师父说，门主准备闭死关突破至化神。¤I heard from my master that the sect leader is preparing to enter seclusion and break through to deity transformation.
唉，{FirstName}{shidi}，你的道心不稳啊......¤Sigh, {FirstName} {shidi}, your dao heart is unsteady...
{FirstName}{shidi}果然厉害！¤{FirstName} {shidi} is truly amazing!
刚刚比试的结果都已经出来了，那么第四轮比试，就由金虹剑派的{FirstName}{LastName}对阵星河剑派的白露。¤The results of the previous rounds of competition have been announced, and now in the fourth round, {FirstName} {LastName} of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect will face Bai Lu of the Celestial River Sword Sect, with the possible use of the Radiant Sword for {FirstName} {LastName} and the Celestial River Sword for Bai Lu.
你与白露都是第一次参与宗门大比，就打入了决赛，台下众人议论纷纷...¤Both you and Bai Lu are participating in the clan competitions for the first time, and have managed to reach the finals. The onlookers below are all discussing in hushed voices...
{FirstName}{shixiong}，请...请指教。¤{FirstName} shixiong, please...please advise.
但其中并没有你的名字。¤But your name is not among them.
待众人前去挑选完奖品后，天机阁阁主方才开口。¤After everyone had finished selecting their prizes, the secrets pavilion master finally spoke.
唉，没能拔得头筹，着实可惜……¤Ah, it's a real shame that I couldn't come out on top....
只见他手一挥，天机榜上密密麻麻的字皆被抹掉，又以指为笔，在天机榜上凌空刻起一行行的字来。¤I saw him wave his hand and all the densely clustered characters on the Heavenly Machine List were wiped away. With his finger as a pen, he carved rows of characters into the list in midair.
喧嚣声中，一切尘埃落定。你知道剩下的悲欢已与你无关，便转过身毅然踏上了旅程。¤In the midst of the clamor, all the dust settled. You knew the remaining joys and sorrows had nothing to do with you, so you turned around and resolutely set out on the journey.
不久后，随着最后一场比试结束，大会也在众人潮水般的喝彩声中，接近了尾声。¤Shortly after, with the end of the final competition, the conference also came to a close amidst the cheering crowds.
而你的名字，赫然便在榜首！¤And your name is at the top of the list!
我宣布，本届大会圆满结束！¤I declare that this conference has concluded successfully!
{FirstName}道友此次位居榜首，按照规定，这些仙缘石与灵石便归道友所有了。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, you have taken the top spot this time. According to the rules, these Immortal Stones and Spirit Stones belong to you.
胜负已分，本轮的胜者是{$TmpStrValue}！¤The victory has been decided, and the winner of this round is {$TmpStrValue}!
最后也感谢诸位的努力，让大会得以顺利举行。希望在一百年后，范某依然能在此见到各位！¤Finally, thank you all for your efforts in making the conference a success. I hope that in a hundred years, Mr. Fan can still see you all here!
呵呵，既然前十名已决出，这天机榜自然也要易位了。¤Hehe, now that the top ten have been determined, the Heavenly Machine List will naturally be reshuffled.
喧嚣声中，一切尘埃落定。你与倪旭欣道别过后，便转过身毅然踏上了旅程。¤Amidst the noisy clamor, everything settled down. After bidding farewell to Ni Xuxin, you turned around resolutely and embarked on your journey.
{FirstName}道友此次位列第{$mingci}，按照规定，这些仙缘石与灵石便归道友所有了。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, you have ranked {$mingci} in this competition. According to the rules, these immortal stones and spirit stones belong to you now.
而你的名字，赫然便在其中！¤And your name, is among them!
是…¤It is...
胜负已分，本轮的胜者是{FirstName}{LastName}！¤The victory has been decided, the winner of this round is {FirstName}{LastName}!
唉……别说天机榜了，这排名估计连前二十都没…看来我的实力还是远远不够…¤Sigh... Forget about the Heavenly Machine Ranking, I probably won't even make it into the top twenty. It seems like my strength is still far from enough...
{xiaozi}，你也别太过骄傲，就算这大会上没有你的对手，以后的路也还长着呢。切勿因为这点小成就，影响了自己的心境。¤{xiaozi}, don't be too proud. Even if there are no opponents for you in this tournament, the road ahead is still long. Don't let this small accomplishment affect your mental state.
呵呵，既然所有事情均已办妥，大会也是时候宣告结束了。¤Hehe, since all matters have been dealt with, it is time to declare the conference over.
你能分辨出，嘈杂的人海中有相当多人都在呼喊你的名字。只有在这一刻，你感觉到你站在了众生的顶点。¤Can you distinguish, among the noisy crowd, how many people are shouting your name? Only at this moment, do you feel that you stand at the pinnacle of all living beings.
得了吧，能在榜上留下一笔还不知足？若实在想夺得榜首，还是得想办法进一步提升自己的实力。¤Give it up, aren't you satisfied with being on the rankings? If you really want to take the top spot, you'll have to find a way to further improve your own strength.
唉……连天机榜都上不了，看来我的实力还是不够……¤Ah... I can't even make it onto the Heavenly Machine Ranking. It seems like my strength is still not enough...
也只能这样想了…¤I can only think that way...
上不了榜的人多着呢，这次名次还不错，应该能把本捞回来。当务之急还是得想办法提升自己的实力。¤There are plenty of people who can't make it on the list. This time the ranking is not bad, so it should be able to make up for this. The top priority is still to find a way to improve one's strength.
凡榜上有名之人，皆可于我阁藏宝楼以仙缘石兑换宝物。诸位这边请。¤All those who are renowned on the mortal world rankings can exchange their treasures for immortal stones at our Treasure House. Please come this way.
也只能这样了…¤This is all I can do now...
{FirstName}道友此次位列第{$mingci}，按照规定，这些灵石便归道友所有了。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, you have ranked {#mingci} this time. According to the rules, these spirit stones belong to you now.
要继续观看其它没有结束的比试么？¤Do you want to continue watching other unfinished contests?
别灰心，能来这参赛的必然都是各势力的佼佼者，只要你能合理运用功法神通，并勤加修炼，有朝一日一定也能像他们一样。¤Don't be discouraged, those who can participate in this competition are all outstanding figures from various factions. As long as you can use cultivation and divine skills reasonably, and diligently practice, one day you will definitely be able to become like them.
那白衣剑修嘴角抹过一丝笑意，竟挥剑向你刺来。¤The white-dressed sword cultivator's lips curl into a faint smile as they brandished their sword and stabbed towards you.
好剑法！¤Great sword technique!
碧幽潭边，一名白衣剑修驱使着一柄灵剑上下翻飞，嘶嘶破风，划出一道道令人眼花缭乱的剑花。灵剑穿梭之下，漫天的竹叶纷崩，散落一地。¤At the edge of the Biyou Pond, a sword cultivator in a white dress wielded a spiritual sword, which danced up and down in the air with a piercing sound that created a spectacular display of sword flowers. As the spiritual sword moved swiftly, bamboo leaves scattered and filled the ground.
你祭起法宝，便向他攻了过去。¤You activate your artifact and charge towards him.
你松了一口气，紧绷的神经骤然放松，或许是因为方才的战斗太过耗神，你眼前一黑晕了过去。¤You let out a sigh of relief, and your tense nerves suddenly relaxed. Perhaps it was because the previous battle was too exhausting. You blacked out in front of your eyes.
那魔修惨叫一声，化作一缕青烟消散了。而一旁连盛平岛主的元神也回归到自己的身体里，正调养生息。¤The demonic cultivator let out a miserable cry and dissipated into a wisp of qingyan smoke. Meanwhile, the yuan god of Island Lord Lian Shengping returned to his own body, currently recuperating.
我们蓬莎岛的修士偶尔会需要陆生妖兽的材料炼制丹药法器，所以我们有时穿过无尽之海来到宁州寻求交易。¤Our cultivators on Pongsha Island occasionally require the materials of land-based spirit beasts to make potions and magic tools, so we sometimes travel across the Endless Sea to Ningzhou to seek trade.
嘿嘿，道友若是有陆上的妖兽材料可以同我师兄交易一番，要知道海上可见不到这些东西呢。¤Hey there, fellow daoist. If you have any spirit beast materials from the land, my senior brother and I would be interested in making a trade. You know, you can't find these things on the sea.
嘿嘿，前辈若是有陆上的妖兽材料可以同我师兄交易一番，要知道海上可见不到这些东西呢。¤Hey hey, if senior has any spirit beast materials from the land, my senior brother would like to trade with you. You know, we can't find these things on the sea.
好，很好。古神教蛊惑我派长老，本宫可未曾淡忘！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Alright, very good. The Ancient God Sect has seduced our sect's elder, but this palace has not forgotten! {vpunch=10,0.5}
欸？这老头竟然...¤Huh? This old man actually...
{$TmpTalkString}，帮我转告白帝，本宫会前往观礼。¤{$TmpTalkString}, please deliver this message to White Emperor: I will attend the ceremony.
{FirstName}长老，你即已是宗门长老，按照惯例应当前往麟庙拜见麟尊大人。¤Elder {FirstName}, now that you are a member of the clan’s elders, according to tradition, you should go to Lin Temple to pay respect to Lord Lin.
晚辈{FirstName}{LastName}，前来拜见麟尊。¤Junior {FirstName}{LastName}, here to pay respects to the Lin Ancestor.
你抵达麟庙近前，大门便自动打开了。¤As you arrive near the Lin Temple, the front gate opens automatically.
请进。¤Please come in.
好的，我这就前去。¤Okay, I'll go now.
{shixiong}若要炼丹，可以租借门派内的丹房使用。¤If {shixiong} wants to practice alchemy, they can rent a dan room within the sect to use.
{shidi}若要炼丹，可以租借门派内的丹房使用。¤{shidi}, if you want to practice alchemy, you can rent a dan room from the sect to use.
这段时间御剑门的封印禁制似乎有所松动，我是奉宗门之命才来此勘察。¤During this time, the sealing restriction of the Imperial Sword Sect seems to have loosened, and I was sent here by my clan to investigate.
救命之恩难以为报，这些灵石与丹药还请道友收下。¤The grace of saving my life is hard to repay, so please accept these spirit stones and pills, fellow daoist.
我来到遗迹不久以后，这里的剑灵似乎突然受到惊动。我不小心被几个剑灵发现，一路被追到了这里。¤After I arrived at the ruins not long ago, it seemed that the sword spirits here were suddenly disturbed. I accidentally ran into a few sword spirits and was chased all the way here.
多谢道友出手相助。¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for lending a helping hand.
没想到御剑门的遗迹如今发生了这么大的变动，我得尽快回到宗门禀告此事。¤I didn't expect such a big change in the ruins of the Imperial Sword Sect. I need to quickly return to my clan to report this matter.
呵呵，在下不才，在外游历多年学到了些秘术罢了，都是些小伎俩，上不了台面。¤Hehe, this humble one has traveled around for years and learned some secret arts, but they're just some petty tricks that cannot be put on stage.
呵呵呵呵，我只是长途奔波略有疲惫罢了，就不劳{FirstName}道友费心了。¤Hehehe, I'm just a little tired from the long journey. No need for fellow daoist {FirstName} to worry about me.
呵呵呵呵，我只是长途奔波略有疲惫罢了，就不劳{FirstName}长老费心了。¤Hahaha, I'm just a little tired from my long journey, so there's no need for Elder {FirstName} to worry about me.
在下姓{FirstName}，途经此地，特意前来打个招呼罢了。¤I, {FirstName}, have passed through this place and came here specifically to say hello.
虽然现在看来你的确并无大碍，但据我所知，离火门内好像并没有如此神奇的疗伤功法吧？¤Although it seems that you are not seriously injured now, as far as I know, Fire Gate Sect does not have such miraculous healing techniques, right?
只见他眉头微皱了一瞬，随即又变成一副笑眯眯的样子。¤I only saw him frown for a moment, then it turned into a smiling expression.
那便只有得罪了。¤Then there is only offending them.
你的术法通玄，我自然是想讨教一二。¤Your mastery of techniques is profound, and I would naturally like to learn from you.
看来你这秘术短时间内也无法连续使用，否则又何必和我解释这些。¤It seems that you cannot continuously use these secret arts in a short period of time, otherwise, there would be no need to explain all of this to me.
此前你与那人交战被击中了要害，又马不停蹄奔波了这么久，这叫我如何放心的下？¤Before this, you were struck in a vital area during your battle with that person and now you have been rushing around for so long. How can I be at ease?
尽管表面上依然和和气气，但你依稀看见，他脖子上有冷汗冒出。¤Although on the surface he still appeared calm and amiable, you could vaguely see cold sweat breaking out on his neck.
原来是{FirstName}长老，幸会幸会。敢问{FirstName}长老来此有何贵干？¤So it was Elder {FirstName}, nice to meet you. May I ask, Elder {FirstName}, what brings you here?
我观你气息不稳，想必是遇到了什么变故，特来问候一二。¤I sense your qi is unstable, you must have encountered some trouble. I came to offer a greeting.
我要说不呢？¤Would I say no?
道友此言何意？¤Fellow daoist, what does this statement mean?
何人在此？！¤Who's here?!
原来是{FirstName}道友，幸会幸会。敢问道友来此有何贵干？¤Originally, it's fellow daoist {FirstName}, pleasure to meet you. May I ask what brings you here asking the way?
他的笑容僵住，语气也阴沉了起来。¤His smile froze, and his tone also became gloomy.
杨长老，别来无恙？¤Mr. Yang, how have you been?
不如将这秘术借我一阅，如何？¤How about lending me a look at this secret arts?
约莫半个时辰过后，你跟着他来到了一处僻静之地。眼看已是动手的好时机，你便不再收敛气息。¤After about half an hour, you followed him to a secluded land. Seeing that it was a good time to start, you no longer restrained your breath.
你略施法术便把他们打得屁滚尿流，再也不敢上前造次，作鸟兽状飞速地跑远了。¤With just a simple spell, you made them all run away like frightened animals, rolling in the dirt and peeing themselves. They won't dare to cause any more trouble and quickly fled the scene.
你看着对面身着{color=#d0380a}玄道宗{/color}道袍的修士一头雾水，不知如何是好。¤You looked at the cultivator across from you wearing the robe of the {color=#d0380a}Xuan Dao Sect{/color}, feeling completely confused and unsure of what to do.
你等得有些不耐烦，打算闭眼小憩片刻。再睁眼时两只魔物都躺在了地上，你上前查看，发现它俩已气绝身亡。¤You were getting a little impatient, so you decided to take a short nap with your eyes closed. When you opened them again, you found that both spirit beasts were lying on the ground dead. You went over to check and found that they had passed away.
莫非...此二人是被其他门派的弟子所杀？¤Could it be... that these two were killed by disciples from another sect?
你不打算在这里浪费时间，便趁此机会赶紧离开了。¤You don't plan to waste time here, so take this opportunity to leave quickly.
此处有空间波动，先躲起来看看情况。¤There is spatial turbulence here. Let's hide first and see what's going on.
话不投机半句多，看剑！¤Words that don't match are useless, watch my sword!
总之...幸好没有被发现，回头向白帝楼汇报吧。¤Anyway... fortunately, we weren't discovered. Let's report back to the White Emperor Pavilion.
空间缓缓撕裂出一条狭窄的缝隙，一名衣着奇特的修士迈步而出。¤A cultivator dressed in unusual clothes stepped out of a narrow crack that slowly tore open in the space.
你来不及过多思考，飞快地蹲在了距离最近的乱石堆中。¤You don't have time to think too much, quickly squatting in the closest pile of rocks.
你四下翻弄，却并没有发现储物袋的踪迹，似乎已经被其它人给取走了。¤As you search around, you can't seem to find any trace of the storage pouch. It appears that someone else has already taken it.
此地似乎刚刚才发生过一场大战，你向四周张望，只见附近的地面一片狼藉，两具尸首以极为古怪的姿势躺倒在地上...¤This place seems to have just experienced a big battle. You look around and see only a mess on the nearby ground, with two bodies lying on the ground in a very strange position ...
你暗自喟叹魏无极指望不上想再看一眼，却发现在你二人交谈之际他已离开此地了。¤You sigh to yourself, hoping to catch another glimpse of Wei Wuji, but you find that he has already left during your chat.
瞧着不太像宁州修士，老头，你对这身打扮有印象吗？¤It doesn't look like he's a cultivator from Ningzhou. Old man, do you recognize this attire?
我怎么可能看上这点小钱！他才空口白牙诬赖清白人是贼！¤How could I possibly care about such a small amount of money! He's just spouting nonsense and accusing innocent people of being thieves!
救命啊！救命啊！{color=#d0380a}魔修{/color}杀人灭口啦！！¤Help! Help! {color=#d0380a}A demonic cultivator{/color} is killing people and silencing them!!
两具尸体死状都极为惨烈，但从遍布全身的伤口来看，这并不像是寻常魔物所为，反倒像是被{color=#d0380a}法宝{/color}所伤。¤The two corpses were in a state of extreme tragedy, but from the wounds all over their bodies, it did not seem like the work of ordinary spirit beasts, but rather like they had been injured by an {color=#d0380a}artifact{/color}.
道友莫信这小贼恶意中伤，分明就是偷了我的储物袋被抓个现行还伶牙俐齿死不承认。¤Fellow daoist, don't believe the slander of this little thief. Clearly, he was caught red-handed stealing my storage pouch and now he's being stubborn and refusing to admit it.
以不变应万变，你决定先弄清楚情况再考虑要不要帮忙。熟料不经意间脚下碎石迸裂，发出轻微的声响。¤Adapt to the changing circumstances without changing yourself, you decide to first understand the situation before considering whether or not to help. Without realizing it, the ground beneath your feet cracks and breaks, making a faint sound.
不管此地到底发生了什么，一种危险的感觉涌上你的心头。你不敢逗留，飞快地离开了。¤No matter what happened here, a sense of danger surged in your heart. You didn't dare to stay and quickly left.
熟悉的声音：俗话说井水不犯河水，我真就只是路过.....¤Familiar voice: As the saying goes, the water in the well does not disturb the river water, I am just passing by...
{FirstName}兄！太好了你来了！我还以为今日就要交代在这魔门手中！{FirstName}兄千万小心，此魔修冒充玄道宗弟子不知有何阴谋。¤{FirstName} Brother! It's great that you're here! I thought I was going to die at the hands of these demonic sect members! Be careful, Brother {FirstName}, this demonic cultivator is impersonating a Mystic Dao Sect disciple and we don't know what his intentions are.
那些没有灵智的下等魔可不会拿走储物袋...莫非是有什么人在这天魔眼的试炼中{color=#d0380a}杀人夺宝{/color}？¤Those inferior demons without intelligence won't take the storage pouch... Could it be that someone is {color=#d0380a}killing people and taking treasures{/color} in this Heavenly Devil's Eye trial?
一颗尖锐的石头以破空之势和你打了个照面，你连忙闪身堪堪避过。¤A sharp stone broke through the air and narrowly missed hitting you as you dodged out of the way.
定睛一看，被威胁的原来是先前遇到的离火门弟子。¤Upon closer inspection, it was revealed that the one being threatened was the fire gate disciple they had encountered before.
魔修？他刚才究竟看到了什么？¤Demon cultivator? What exactly did he just see?
这两具尸体均已血肉模糊，四肢扭曲，难辨身份。此时你准备...？¤Both of these corpses are already blurred with flesh and blood, and their limbs are twisted, making it difficult to identify them. What do you do at this point?
这声音好像似曾相识...会是谁呢？¤This voice seems familiar...who could it be?
有点眼熟，好像在什么地方见过，但是怎么就想不起来呢？¤It looks familiar, like I've seen it somewhere, but why can't I remember?
总之...幸好没有被发现，在这天魔眼里多一事不如少一事，还是不参合这种闲事了。¤Anyway... luckily I wasn't discovered. It's better to not get involved in these idle matters when it comes to the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
定睛一看，被威胁的原来是先前遇到的竹山宗弟子。¤Upon closer inspection, the one being threatened turned out to be the disciple of the Bamboo Mountain Sect encountered earlier.
你悄悄地摸过去，一个闪身躲进山石之后，想看清到底何人在争执。¤You quietly approached, quickly dodging behind some rocks to get a better view of who was arguing.
熟悉的声音：哎哎哎，你别过来！再过来我就喊人了啊！！¤Familiar voice: Hey hey hey, don't come any closer! If you come any closer, I'll call for help!!
奇怪...能做到撕裂空间那至少也得有化神修为，难道是用了什么传送类的法宝？¤Strange... to be able to tear through space, at the very least one must have reached the level of deity transformation. Could it be that they used some sort of teleportation artifact?
且慢！道友有话好说，何须武力相向！¤Hold on there! Fellow daoist, let's talk things out instead of resorting to violence!
所谓事不关己，高高挂起。你不愿被莫名牵扯到这些危险中，于是扭头便离开了这里。¤As the saying goes, 'mind your own business' and you hung it up high. You didn't want to be inexplicably involved in these dangers, so you turned around and left this place.
原来远处两只下等魔交战正酣，你方才是被余波牵连。它们似乎还没发现你的存在，你决定？¤Originally, two inferior demons were fiercely battling in the distance, and you were just caught in the aftermath. It seems that they haven't noticed your presence yet. What will you do?
覆海大圣本就是修为精深的龙族大能，再加之九霄前辈的指点。此次突破必然如履平地。¤The Overwhelming Sea Saint is already a powerful member of the Dragon Clan with advanced cultivation, and with the guidance of Senior Jiuxiao, this breakthrough will be as easy as walking on flat ground.
嗯，最近家父已经伤愈出关，正在着手冲击化神之境。¤Well, my father has recently recovered from his injuries and is currently working towards breaking through the realm of deity transformation.
道友可还记得，家父突破失败一事？¤Fellow daoist, do you still remember the incident where my father failed to make a breakthrough?
你是担心会有人趁虚而入？¤Are you worried that someone will take advantage of the situation?
本次突破不比上次，家父需借助龙珠引动龙脉之力故而会在龙宫突破，届时声势浩大，必会吸引这无尽之海上各方势力的目光。¤This breakthrough is different from the last one. My father needs to use the Dragon Balls to activate the power of dragon veins, so he will break through in the Dragon Palace. It will be a grand event that will surely attract the attention of various forces in the endless sea.
此事也是我唐突了，道友不必挂怀。¤This matter was also my impoliteness, fellow daoist need not worry about it.
浪方老贼已经被你手刃鲲族余孽已是不成气候，虽我龙族隐世不出，但也不是什么宵小之辈都可以觊觎的。¤The infamous bandit Langfang has already been eliminated by your hand, and the surviving members of the Kun Clan are now powerless. Although my Dragon Clan usually remains hidden, we are not to be underestimated by any minor characters who dare to covet our power.
此次仅是想邀请道友前来观礼而已。¤This time, I only wish to invite fellow daoists to come and witness the spectacle.
哈哈，并非如此。¤Haha, not so.
我龙族隐世不出，但也不是什么宵小之辈都可以觊觎的。¤Our Dragon Clan lives in seclusion, but we are not to be underestimated by any petty individuals.
此次是想请道友为家父护法。¤This time, I want to ask my fellow daoist to protect my father.
不过鲲族余孽在浪方老贼的率领之下觊觎我族已久，他们必不会放过这次机会。¤However, the remaining members of the Kun clan, led by Langfang the old thief, have been coveting our clan for a long time, and they will not let this opportunity pass.
所以你确保不会被过路的妖兽邪修等偷袭后，简单地调整了自己的状态，而后便开始辅助炎萧调息疗伤。¤So, after making sure that he wouldn't be sneak attacked by any passing spirit beasts or demonic cultivators, he simply adjusted his own status before assisting Yan Xiao in breath adjustment and healing.
也不知为何炎萧{$ChenHu}会在此遭遇天魔道的魔修。出动了三位元婴修士，还设下大阵，怎么看都不像偶遇。¤It's unknown how Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} encountered a demonic cultivator from the Heavenly Demon Cult here. Three Nascent Soul cultivators were dispatched and even set up a large formation, which doesn't seem like a coincidence.
所以你只是随意地用了些手段防止被妖兽邪修等偷袭，而后便自顾自的开始了修炼。¤So you just casually used some methods to prevent sneak strikes from spirit beasts or demonic cultivators, and then proceeded to cultivate on your own.
所以你确保不会被过路的妖兽邪修等偷袭后，便开始为炎萧调息疗伤。¤So, after making sure not to get sneak attacked by any passing spirit beasts or demonic cultivators, you began to adjust and restore Yan Xiao's breath.
你简单为他处理后，便坐至一旁修炼起来，顺带为他护法。¤After you easily dealt with him, you sat down to cultivate and protect him on the side.
炎萧的伤势稳定得很快，体内的灵气也近乎正常状态，但要说恢复，不是短时间内可以做到的。¤Yan Xiao's injuries stabilized very quickly, and the spiritual energy in his body is almost in a normal status. However, when it comes to recovery, it's not something that can be achieved in a short period of time.
七日后。¤Seven days later.
还好炎萧此前不知用了什么秘术，只是灵气透支得厉害，身上的伤看起来恐怖，却算不上实质性的伤害。以他元婴期的修为，即便是放着不管，自愈也只是时间问题。¤Fortunately, Yan Xiao had used some secret arts before, so the overuse of spiritual energy had caused terrifying injuries, but they were not substantial. With his cultivation at the nascent soul phase, even if left alone, self-healing was only a matter of time.
你带着晕过去的炎萧在雷鸣海上就近寻了一处落脚地。此处本就是一座不大的岛屿，除你和炎萧二人外，再无半点生灵。¤You brought the fainting Yan Xiao to find a nearby resting place on Thunder Sea. This place was originally a small island, aside from you and Yan Xiao, there was no other living creature.
你猜的没错...但我也不太清楚天魔道，为何会在海上追杀我...不但出动多位元婴修士...还布下如此阵法。¤You guessed it right... But even I am not too sure why the Heavenly Demon Cult would chase me on the sea... Not only did they send out multiple Nascent Soul cultivators... They also set up such an array.
嗯，是极为精纯的灵核，而且此物由于与被封印的天魔息息相关，极为罕见，有些不凡的用处。但我也只是奉命行事，具体有何作用也不太清楚。¤Well, it is an extremely pure spiritual core, and because it is closely related to the sealed heavenly demon, it is extremely rare and has some extraordinary uses. But I am just following orders and I am not too sure about its specific functions.
反倒像是特意在追杀，甚至是不知为何掌握了炎萧{$ChenHu}的行踪。¤It seems like they are intentionally being chased, and they might even have somehow learned the whereabouts of Yan Xiao {$ChenHu}.
但你又怎忍心放着他不管？于是待炎萧体内灵气已趋于平稳，受的伤也无大碍后，你才放心的坐至一旁为他护法。¤But how can you bear to leave him alone? So, after Yan Xiao's spirit energy had stabilized and his injuries were not serious, you sat down next to him and guarded him with relief.
比赛当天，四十八位选手在决定完出场顺序后，便集中在一个选手休息室等待比赛的开始。¤On the day of the competition, after deciding the order of appearance, the forty-eight contestants gathered in a lounge to wait for the start of the game.
各位，比赛马上就要开始了，若已经准备妥当，便可以前往比赛场地。¤Everyone, the competition is about to begin. If you are ready, you can go to the competition venue.
所有比赛的赛程将统一公布在告示上，你们也可以在上面看到每位选手的目前得分情况。¤All the schedules of the competition will be announced on the bulletin board, and you can also see the current scores of each contestant on it.
比赛全程透明公开。诸位若还有什么疑问，都可以前来询问，在下必当不遗余力为各位解惑。¤The entire competition is transparent and open. If anyone still has any questions, you can come and ask. I will do my best to solve any doubts for everyone.
确实，这看来是这宝库的最后一道防线，只是不知为何没有攻击你。¤Indeed, this seems to be the final defense line of the treasure trove, but it's unclear why it didn't strike at you.
嗯....¤Um....
在这空荡荡的密库之中，只有一旁的傀儡似乎在见证着龙族曾经的辉煌。¤In the empty vault, only the puppet on the side seemed to be witnessing the Dragon Clan's past glory.
你看到一尊石人立于旁边，其中蕴含恐怖的能量，一股不弱于元婴期修士的威压扩散开朗。¤You see a stone man standing next to you, containing terrifying energy. An aura of might suppression spreads out, not weaker than that of a nascent soul cultivator.
在这空荡荡的密库之中，地面上破碎的傀儡诉说着曾经的辉煌。。¤In this empty secret vault, the shattered puppets on the ground tell of their former glory..
一件内甲向你飞来。¤A piece of inner armor flies towards you.
这好像是一具元婴期实力的傀儡。¤This seems to be a puppet with the cultivation level of Nascent Soul stage.
一道黑影向你扑来。¤A black shadow rushes towards you.
你跟着他们一路逃遁，但很快就因为灵气风暴走散了。也不知过了多久，身后的吸力逐渐降低，你才终于逃过一劫。¤You followed them as they fled, but soon became separated due to the spiritual energy storm. It's unknown how much time passed, but the suction force behind you gradually decreased, and you finally escaped danger.
呼，终于逃出来了，没想到浪方大圣的吞噬神通竟恐怖如斯……还是先离开此地为好，免得节外生枝。¤Phew, finally escaped. I didn't expect that the devouring divine skill of Great Sage Langfang was so terrifying. It's better to leave this place first, to avoid any complications.
有意思，此等异象难得一见，我倒是要一探究竟！¤Interesting, such a rare and unusual occurrence. I definitely want to find out what's going on!
你小心翼翼的朝那个方向前进，没过多久，只觉得远处传来的吸力越来越强，即便以你元婴期的实力也难以抵挡。¤You cautiously move towards that direction, but before long, you feel the suction from afar getting stronger and stronger. Even with your nascent soul stage strength, it's difficult to resist.
一声悠扬的鲸啸后，远处原本平静的海面掀起了巨浪。顷刻间，天地随之变色。¤After a long and melodious whale's cry, the calm sea in the distance surged with huge waves. In an instant, the color of the sky and earth changed.
回头只见方圆百里内，天地灵气被一扫而尽，无数海兽，没来得及逃跑的修士与船只被吸入一个巨大的漩涡，没有一个活物能够逃离...¤Looking back, within a square radius of 100 li, the spiritual energy of heaven and earth was swept away in an instant. Countless sea beasts, cultivators who didn't have time to escape, and ships were sucked into a huge vortex, and not a single living creature could escape...
你小心翼翼的朝那个方向前进，没过多久，只觉得远处传来的吸力越来越强，即便以你化神期的实力也难以抵挡。¤You cautiously move towards that direction, but soon feel a suction force getting stronger from the distance, even with your deity transformation strength it is difficult to resist.
只见几名金丹期修士狼狈逃遁而来，就在他们身后，一股恐怖的吸引力在急速向你们蔓延而来...¤I saw several cultivators at the Golden Core stage fleeing in a panic. And right behind them, a terrifying gravity force was quickly spreading towards you all...
你全力施展遁术，拼了命的往回逃。也不知过了多久，身后的吸力逐渐降低，你才终于逃过一截。¤You utilized all your mobility and desperately fled back. It was unknown how long had passed, but the suction behind you gradually weakened, and you finally managed to escape a certain distance.
几位道友，请问那边究竟发生了何事？¤Fellow Daoists, may I ask what exactly happened over there?
你心下大骇，但此时反悔已经为时已晚，你顺着各处被吸来的船只于妖兽一起，被卷入一片黑暗之中...¤You were deeply horrified, but it was too late to regret now. Along with the spirit beasts, you were sucked in by various ships from all over and swept into the darkness...
你小心翼翼的朝那个方向前进，没过多久，只觉得远处传来的吸力越来越强，以你的修为根本难以抵挡。¤You carefully move towards that direction, but before long, you feel the suction getting stronger from a distance. With your cultivation, it's impossible to resist.
什么事也没有发生。¤Nothing happened.
你疯了？快，快退！¤Are you crazy? Quickly, quickly back away!
道...道友有所不知，那是浪方大圣在吞噬天地灵气，若我们这等修为被波及到，那...那可是必死无疑啊！¤Fellow Daoist, you may not know this, but the Great Sage Langfang is devouring the spiritual energy of heaven and earth. If our cultivation is affected by it, we will undoubtedly face certain death!
如此天地异象，难道说……¤With such a strange phenomenon in the world, could it be that...
道友也...也快逃离此地吧...再晚可...可就来不及了！¤Fellow daoist, you should also quickly escape from this place... If you delay any longer, it may be too late!
倪旭欣拿着几张古旧的卷轴翻来覆去看得起劲儿，好像并没有注意到你的存在。¤Ni Xuxin was holding onto a few old scrolls and was engrossed in analyzing them, seemingly unaware of your presence.
据族中长老说，宁州古迹中还残存着许多上古的宝物与传承，我费心搜罗好久，才得这几张古图。待进入古迹后若有缘相遇，我定与{$TmpTalkString}同享宝图，哈哈！¤According to the elders of my clan, there are many ancient treasures and legacies remaining in the ancient ruins of Ningzhou. I spent a lot of effort and finally obtained these few ancient maps. If we are lucky enough to meet in the ruins, I will share the treasure map with you, {$TmpTalkString}. Haha!
若是难敌林家修士，不妨来我这里看看。¤If you are unable to compete with the Lin family cultivators, you can come and seek refuge with me.
道友，这秘市也算是武陵城一年一次的盛会了，可不要空手而归啊。¤Fellow daoist, the secret market is considered the annual event of Wuling City. Don't come back empty-handed.
你又沿着这个方向用神识仔细探测了一番，可惜并没有其它的发现。¤You carefully probed in this direction with your soul sense again, but unfortunately, there were no other discoveries.
岩壁上一道奇异的光泽引起了你的注意...原来是一颗{SayStcVal=948}。¤A strange gleam on the cliff catches your eye... It turns out to be a {SayStcVal=948}.
这广陵城附近有点名气的散修都被他给打了个遍，若不是忌惮百里府的势力，这小少爷恐怕得结下不少仇怨。¤The nearby cultivators known for their reputation around Guangling City have all been beaten by him. If it weren't for the fear of the power of the Baili Mansion, this young lord would have probably accumulated a lot of resentment.
传闻这百里少爷醉心武艺，遇见年龄或是修为相仿的修士便一定要拉着比上一比。¤Rumors say that Young Master Baili is obsessed with martial arts and will challenge any cultivator of similar age or cultivation level he meets to a fight.
这块刻板上记录的内容确实有一定的研究价值...¤The content recorded on this tablet does have certain research value...
虽然是赝品，不过用作摆设和收藏倒也不错。我们采筠阁里其实有不少修士喜欢收集这类型的东西呢。¤Although it is a fake, it is not bad as a decoration and collection. In fact, there are many cultivators in our Caegyun Pavilion who like to collect this type of things.
咳咳...其实这应该只是一种特殊的天象，唤作月环食。这种天象极少出现，我猜十有八九，便是那古人将月环食当作了妖兽，才刻下了此碑。¤*Cough cough*... Actually, this is just a special celestial phenomenon called a lunar eclipse. This phenomenon occurs very rarely. I would guess that most likely, the ancient people mistook the lunar eclipse for a spirit beast and thus inscribed this monument.
太阴幽荧？¤Is it the ghostly radiance of the moon?
可如此说来，那灵气涌动的异象又作何解释？¤In that case, how do you explain the surge of spiritual energy?
一般来说，这种铭刻了灵纹的石碑，往往是龙族所布阵法之阵基。这东西定然不会是从化龙海龙宫所得，那想必应该是上古龙宫的遗物吧。¤Generally speaking, these stone tablets with spirit engravings are often the foundation arrays set up by the dragon clan. This thing definitely did not come from the Shifting Dragon Sea Dragon Palace, so it must be a relic from the Ancient Dragon Palace.
这是上古时期发生在极阴三海上的一件奇事。¤This is a strange event that happened in the Extreme Yin Three Seas during the ancient times.
大战持续了几个月，最后鲲鹏耐不住了，集全身灵力向玄武攻去。而玄武则整面龟壳亮起，化作了一个防御大阵，硬是扛住了这一击。¤The great battle lasted for several months, and finally Kunpeng could not wait any longer. He gathered all his spiritual power and attacked Black Tortoise. However, Black Tortoise's entire turtle shell lit up and transformed into a defensive formation, withstanding the attack.
再细细感知之下，这块石头的内部不仅没有任何灵气残留，连一点其它的杂质都没有。如此纯净，恐怕不是天然所能形成。¤Upon careful examination, the interior of this stone not only lacks any residual spiritual energy, but also has no other impurities whatsoever. Such purity is unlikely to have formed naturally.
{$daoyou}能否告知，你是在何处发现的这块鳞片？¤Can you tell me, {$daoyou}, where did you find this scale?
无尽海渊...是了，我早该想到...¤The endless abyss... of course, I should have thought of it earlier...
嗯...是古代文字...让我看看上面都刻了些什么...¤Mhmm... It's ancient writing... Let me see what's carved on it...
嗯…一块古老的旋龟壳，上面写的这种文字相当特殊，是图文合一的一种记叙方式。让我看看上面写了些什么东西…¤Well... a piece of ancient revolving turtle shell, the writing on it is quite peculiar, using a combination of text and images to tell a story. Let me see what it says...
确实…龟壳上还记录了与之有关的一些传言。例如他曾经在一个村子的周围出现，第二天村民们发现，庙宇里祭祀用的黑色酒杯竟赫然变成了白色……¤Indeed... There are some rumors recorded on the turtle shell. For example, it was said that he appeared around a village once, and the next day the villagers found that the black wine cups used for worship in the temple had unexpectedly turned white...
哈哈哈…这看上去像矿石，但其实是某些妖兽的角质...也就是...俗称指甲一类的东西。¤Hahaha...This looks like ore, but it's actually the horn of some spirit beasts...In other words...it's commonly known as nails or something similar.
上古龙宫的遗物，这些年来陆陆续续我也收到过不少，不过像这样的石碑确实是第一次见，算得上珍稀之物。¤I have received many relics from the ancient dragon palace over the years, but this stone tablet is truly unique and rare.
不过，大部分都是残损的...能够保存这么完整的还是比较罕见。¤However, most of them are damaged... it's quite rare to be able to preserve them so intact.
总之，不管有关玄武的传说是真是假，古代人类为神兽举办葬礼的习俗是确有其事，之前也曾有其它的石棺出世。¤In any case, whether the legends about the Black Tortoise are true or false, the ancient custom of holding funerals for divine beasts did exist. There have also been other stone coffins unearthed previously.
赝品？那人可信誓旦旦的说这里面保存的可是上古神兽鲲鹏的羽毛！¤Fake? That person swore that the feathers inside were from the ancient divine beasts Kunpeng!
当时的人类无法解释如此规模的天地异象，所以人们将那枚银色圆环奉为圣兽，取名为“太阴幽荧”。¤Taiyin Ghost Fire.
极阴三海中许多地方都有人声称，自己目睹过诡异的黑色人影——他通体漆黑，连眼睛都完全是黑色，远看像是一道影子，但又的确是人形。¤In many places within the three seas of extreme darkness, people have claimed to have witnessed strange black shadows they are completely black, with eyes that are also entirely black. From a distance, they look like shadows, but they are indeed human-shaped.
阴冥海...原来如此...¤The Deep Yin Sea... so that's what it is...
如果我没有猜错的话，这应该是远古神兽玄武的龟壳碎片。¤If I'm not mistaken, this should be a fragment of the shell of the ancient divine beast, Black Tortoise.
{$daoyou}能否告知，你是在何处发现的这块角质？¤Can you tell me, {$daoyou}, where did you find this piece of horn?
嗯,,,我曾经见过这种柱子。它有古代龙宫建筑的典型特征，偶尔能在东海上浮的龙宫残骸中找到。¤Mm, I have seen this kind of pillar before. It has the typical features of ancient Dragon Palace architecture, which can occasionally be found in the remains of Dragon Palaces floating on the East Sea.
蛇死后，那些崇拜玄武的古代人类便将一部分掉落的蛇鳞收集起来，为它举办了葬礼。那巨大的石棺想必就是为玄武准备的。¤After the snake's death, the ancient humans who worshipped the black tortoise collected some of its fallen scales and held a funeral for it. The huge stone coffin was probably prepared for the black tortoise.
话说回来，这本来也只是记录在石碑上的文字，真实性还是有待考究的，说不定只是古人的想象罢了。¤On the other hand, these were originally just words recorded on a stone tablet, and their authenticity still needs to be investigated. Perhaps they are simply the imaginings of ancient people.
这样的遗物确实非常珍贵，对于研究阵法的历史也有很高的价值。¤This type of relic is indeed extremely precious and has great value in researching the history of arrays.
嗯？这是真龙精血结晶？¤Hmmm? Is this a crystal of true dragon essence blood?
这块石头是我在阴冥海的一处海岛上寻得的，我这么说，道友应当理解它的奇怪之处了吧。¤This stone was found by me on an island in the Deep Yin Sea. Fellow daoist, I believe you can understand its peculiarities from what I have said.
据说上古神兽玄武乃龟蛇之身，但龟体与蛇体其实并非一体，而是一种共生的关系。由于龟的寿元比蛇要长的多，在蛇寿元将近之时，便主动离开了龟。¤It is said that the ancient divine beast 玄武 was a combination of a turtle and a snake, but their bodies were not actually connected, rather it was a symbiotic relationship. Due to the fact that the turtle has a much longer lifespan than the snake, when the snake's lifespan was nearing its end, it would voluntarily leave the turtle.
不过这鳞片的实物我还是第一次见到，倒是颇具研究价值。¤However, this scale is something I've never seen before, but it's quite valuable for research.
极阴三海的情报，即便在我们采筠阁内部也比较少见。这块石头倒也有一些值得研究的价值...¤The intelligence on the Extreme Yin Three Seas is quite rare, even within our Caegyun Pavilion. This piece of stone also has some value for research...
有趣，竟然记录了上古时期的一场惊动整片无尽之海的天地异象。¤Interesting, it actually recorded a heaven and earth anomaly that shook the entire Endless Sea during the ancient times.
不过，这赝品也算的上是质量极为上乘的高仿品了，道友平日里对这些东西研究的少，被骗倒也不奇怪。¤However, this counterfeit product can also be considered a high-quality imitation, fellow daoist. It is not surprising that you were deceived since you rarely study these things in your daily life.
嗯...乍看之下倒是没什么特别的。不过想来，道友也不至于拿一快普通的石头来消遣于我吧？¤Hmm...at first glance there doesn't seem to be anything particularly special about it. But then again, fellow daoist wouldn't just use a regular stone to pass the time with me, right?
不过即便如此，这块石碑上记录的内容对上古的历史也相当具有研究价值。¤However, even so, the content recorded on this stone tablet is quite valuable for the study of ancient history.
听这描述，倒与天地间诞生的某些灵物有几分相似。¤After hearing this description, it appears similar to some spiritual objects that are born between heaven and earth.
啧啧，可惜这种晶体中的能量似乎只有鲲族能够吸收，对于人类修士而言只能算是一种收藏品而已。¤Unfortunately, only the Kun race can absorb the energy in these crystals. For human cultivators, they can only be considered as collectibles.
远古时期，某一天的入夜时分，曾有一枚中空的银色圆环悬挂在远空中，整片无尽之海很快便充满了阴气。灵气也变得异常躁动，向无尽之海深处涌去。这异象足足持续了一整晚，直到第二天天亮才消失。¤In the ancient times, during a night, a hollow silver circle hung in the far sky, and the endless sea was soon filled with gloom. Spiritual energy also became unusually restless, surging towards the depths of the endless sea. This anomaly lasted for the entire night until it disappeared at dawn the next day. The endless sea was left with an eerie atmosphere.
曾有一人在好奇心驱使下接近过那黑色人影——他先用神识探查了一番，发现神识压根探测不到他体内。后又试图与他交流，发现他发音虽然奇怪，但确实能够口吐人言。¤There was once a person who approached the black figure out of curiosity he first probed with his soul sense, only to find that it could not detect anything within the figure. Later, he attempted to communicate with him and discovered that although his pronunciation was strange, he could indeed speak.
以及还有阴气极重的妖怪在祸害村庄的时候，碰巧遇见了那黑色人影路过，那些妖怪看见他像看见鬼一样逃了的传言。¤When the village was under attack by extremely evil monsters and demons, they happened to encounter a black figure passing by. The monsters and demons fled at the sight of him, as if they had seen a ghost.
究竟为何会产生这种石头？¤What exactly caused the formation of this kind of stone?
不错，这是我在东海找到的。¤Not bad, this is what I found in the East Sea.
哈哈哈，若真是神兽鲲鹏的羽毛，还是保存的这么完整的，至少也得价值百万，哪会随随便便拿出来转手。¤Hahaha, if it really is the feather of a divine beast like Kunpeng and is preserved so well, it would be worth at least a million. It wouldn't be casually taken out and sold.
极阴三海位于无尽之海的极南之地，这几片海域中的任何物体都毫无疑问会沾染上那里的阴气，这块石头却完全没有，这便有几分奇怪了。¤The three seas of extreme yin are located in the southernmost land of the endless sea. Any object in these seas will undoubtedly be tainted with the yin energy there, but this stone is completely unaffected. It's quite strange.
嗯...其实是在一处破败的祭坛之中。我原本以为它会是什么更有价值的东西呢...¤Umm...actually, it's in a dilapidated altar. I thought it would be something more valuable...
这些实验结果的有关记录我倒是很感兴趣，可惜实在缺损的太严重了。¤Unfortunately, I am very interested in the relevant records of these experimental results, but the deficiency is too severe.
{$daoyou}能否告知，你是在何处发现的这块碎壳？¤Can you tell me, where did you discover this broken shell, {$daoyou}?
哈哈哈哈，这根本就不是什么琥珀，只是一个仿制品而已嘛。{$daoyou}这是从哪里淘来的赝品？¤Hahaha, this is not even real amber, it's just a counterfeit. Where did you get this fake, {$daoyou}?
世有异兽，名曰鲲鹏，翔九霄而为鹏，潜九渊而为鲲。又有蛇龟，名唤玄武，二者斗于...¤In this world, there are extraordinary beasts known as the Kunpeng, soaring through the nine heavens as a peng or lurking in the nine abysses as a kun. There is also a serpent tortoise, known as the Black Tortoise. The two fought a fierce battle at...
嗯...这似乎是什么妖兽身上碎裂的硬壳。让我看看...嗯？这熟悉的灵纹...¤Hmm... this seems to be the shattered hard shell of some spirit beast. Let me take a closer look... Hmm? These are well-known spirit markings...
鲲鹏既能飞又能游，攻势连绵不绝，但玄武本身就是蛇龟两位一体，面对鲲鹏倒也不落下风。¤The black tortoise, a mythical creature that is part snake and part turtle, is not one to be underestimated. Though the kunpeng is adept at both flying and swimming and its attacks seem endless, the black tortoise is just as formidable.
是在无尽海渊，这块碎壳有何特殊之处？¤Is there anything special about this broken shell in the endless abyss?
原来如此，那这就很有可能是古代神兽掉落的爪尖碎片了。¤Originally, it turned out that this is very likely a broken tip of an ancient divine beast's claw.
除了坚硬以外，没有什么特别的地方...也不适合用来炼器...不过...这片也未免太硬了吧！¤Apart from being hard, there is nothing particularly special about it... and it's not suitable for refining...but...this piece is just too hard!
极阴三海，特别是玄冥海附近常有邪修出没，拥有一些稀奇古怪的功法倒也正常。¤In the extreme Yin Three Seas, especially near the Underworld Sea, there are often demonic cultivators who possess some peculiar and ancient techniques.
唔...好大的蛇鳞...我还从未在鲲族之外的其它海兽身上见到过这么大的鳞片。¤Mmm...such large snake scales...I have never seen scales this big on any sea beast outside of the Kun clan.
而最诡异的是，待他走近后才发现，那黑色人影的相貌居然与自己一模一样。那人见情况不妙，便当即逃走了。¤And the most bizarre thing was that when he approached, he discovered that the appearance of the dark figure was exactly the same as his own. The person saw the situation was not good, and immediately fled.
{$daoyou}是想交换情报，还是发现了什么有趣的遗物？¤Is {$daoyou} seeking to exchange information, or have they discovered some interesting relics?
虽然我还不太能确定它具体的来历，不过确实有一定的研究价值。¤Although I am still not quite sure of its specific origins, it does have certain research value.
上古神兽血脉...还有鲲族的吞噬秘术...竟想领悟神兽传承的神通么？实在可笑...¤Bloodline of Ancient Divine Beasts... and the devouring secret arts of the Kun Clan... you actually want to enlighten yourself with divine skills from the inheritance of divine beasts? That's truly ridiculous...
在一个巨大的石棺之中，这石棺有数十丈宽，巨大无比。¤Inside a huge stone coffin, this stone coffin is dozens of yards wide, huge beyond compare.
有趣，这块刻板上显然是记录了远古时鲲鹏与玄武在无尽海渊发生的那场大战。¤Interesting, it seems that this tablet clearly records the ancient battle between Kunpeng and the black tortoise in the endless abyss.
石棺...这倒让我想起一个传说。¤The stone coffin... this reminds me of a legend.
其中缘由我也不太清楚…不过据我猜测，这和我们平日里使用的灵石有几分相似。当灵石中的灵气被吸收殆尽后，也会形成这样类似的状态。¤I'm not entirely sure of the reason... but based on my guess, it's somewhat similar to the state of spirit stones we commonly use. When the spiritual energy in the spirit stones is completely absorbed, it will also form a similar status.
这可是相当稀有的东西，鲲族在吞噬龙族后，能够将龙族的精血提炼并吸收。只有提炼到一半，还没有完全吸收的情况下，才会形成这样的红色晶体。¤This is quite a rare thing. The Kun Clan, after devouring the Dragon Clan, is able to refine and absorb the Dragon Clan's essence. Only when halfway through refining and not fully absorbed, will this kind of red crystal be formed.
嗯...残缺的玉简...让我看看里面还有多少有价值的内容...¤Uh...Incomplete jade scroll...Let me see how much valuable content is left inside...
这个…我也不太确定...或许只是由于特殊的天象导致阴阳失衡，产生的某种现象吧...¤I'm not quite sure about this... perhaps it's just a phenomenon caused by the imbalance of yin and yang due to a special celestial occurrence.
像玄武，鲲鹏这些古代神兽，不仅实力强大而且好斗，自然会成为远古人类心中类似图腾一般的存在，并用它们的材料举行祭祀仪式。¤Ancient divine beasts such as the black tortoise and Kunpeng were not only powerful but also extremely aggressive, making them similar to totems in the minds of ancient humans. These beasts were used in ritual ceremonies with their materials.
一块石碑...从造型上来看，这似乎是龙族的东西，不过上面铭刻的灵纹我确实没有见过...¤A stone tablet... Judging from its design, this seems to be something from the dragon clan, but I have never seen the spirit markings engraved on it before...
不错，这龟壳上的奇事我之前倒是闻所未闻，很有研究的价值。¤Not bad, I haven't heard of this strange thing on the tortoise shell before. It has great research value.
{$daoyou}是想用它换取灵石，还是其它海域的情报？¤{$Daoyou}, are you looking to trade it for spirit stones or other information in the sea?
嗯…是上古文字，让我看看上面写了些什么…¤Hmm... it's ancient text. Let me see what it says...
{FirstName}{xiongdi}可有打听到什么有关天蝉灵叶的消息？¤{FirstName}, have you heard any news about the Skyscada Leaf? {xiongdi}
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，近来无恙？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, how have you been lately?
我送阁下。¤I'll escort you.
前辈好。¤Hello senior.
他前来迎接你。¤He has come to welcome you.
嗯？有人入侵？¤Hmm? Someone is invading?
你遇到了宗门驻守此地的{SayStcVal=931}。¤You have encountered a member of the clan stationed here. {SayStcVal=931} must be preserved.
对方和你点头示意。¤The opposite party nodded at you in agreement.
{xiaozi}，迷路了？¤Little friend, are you lost?
要前往执事堂吗？¤Do you want to go to the deacon's hall?
前方是{SayStcVal=928}驻守此地的{SayStcVal=931}，你决定...¤Up ahead are the {SayStcVal=928} stationed in this area by the {SayStcVal=931}, you decide...
门派变量错误¤The sect variable is incorrect.
后方乃门派驻地，办完事速速离开。¤The sect's headquarters is located behind, finish your tasks and leave quickly.
阁下这里是我{SayStcVal=X}重地，劝你速速离去。¤Sir, this is my {SayStcVal=X} territory. I advise you to get out of the way quickly.
你二人又闲聊一会无关紧要的修炼杂事后，才各自离去。¤After chatting for a while about irrelevant cultivation matters, the two of you left separately.
那我便不客气了。¤Then I won't be polite.
他见你终于是停下手来，竟忘了刚才的低声下气，话语声又硬气了起来。¤He saw that you finally stopped, and forgot the low and soft tone from before. His voice became firm again.
你还有什么想说的？¤Do you have anything else to say?
我后来上前询问他几句，这人竟然还对我恶语相向。若不是前段时间出了些事，如今有伤未愈，我当场就跟他“切磋切磋”论论斤两了。¤Later on, I approached him and asked him a few questions. To my surprise, he started hurling insults at me. If it weren't for the fact that I was still recovering from some injuries I sustained recently, I would have challenged him to a duel on the spot to settle our differences.
你向{$NpcName}述说星宫修士被你教训的惨状，而下意识地忽视了他的“借口”。¤You tell {$NpcName} about the miserable state of the star palace cultivator that you taught a lesson to, unconsciously ignoring his excuse.
咳，实不相瞒，{$ZaiXia}的好友正是星河剑派门人。最近也是她与我提起此事，才令我有些担忧 。¤Ahem, to be honest, my friend who is a member of the Celestial River Sword Sect told me about this recently, which made me somewhat worried. {$ZaiXia}입니다.
但...{$ZaiXia}还是有些担心。¤But...{$ZaiXia} still has some worries.
{$ZaiXia}先谢过{FirstName}{$NickName}了。¤Thank you in advance, {FirstName}{$NickName}, for your support.
唉，也罢，我这就离开。¤Ah, forget it, I'll leave now.
若不是{$NpcName}说你在这附近滞留太久，让星河剑派的女性修士有些担忧，还托我前来询问情况，我可没兴趣管你星宫的人想做什么。¤If it weren't for {$NpcName} saying that you had been lingering in the area for too long, making the female cultivators of the Celestial River Sword Sect worry, and asking me to come and inquire about the situation, I wouldn't be interested in what the people of the Star Palace want to do.
这是说好的报酬，还请收下。¤This is the agreed upon reward, please accept it.
这是说好的报酬，还请笑纳。¤This is the agreed upon reward, please accept it with a smile.
那人便在星河剑派往青石灵脉的支路上，就交给{FirstName}{$NickName}了。¤That person will be handed over to {FirstName}{$NickName} on the side road towards the Greenstone Spirit Vein in the Celestial River Sword Sect.
此处既不是门派领地，又不是你私人所有，凭什么赶我离开？¤This is neither the land of the sect nor your private property, why do you have the right to drive me away?
{FirstName}{$NickName}可有找到那星宫弟子？¤{FirstName}, {$NickName}, have you found any Star Palace disciples?
这是说好的报酬，不用跟我客气，{$Xiao}¤This is the promised reward, no need to be polite with me, {$Xiao}
你将星宫修士的辩解转述给{$NpcName}。¤You relayed the star palace cultivator's explanation to {$NpcName}.
呵，可不只是我，只怕宁州五行宗门对你们星宫修士都有些看法。¤Oh, it's not just me. I'm afraid the Five Elements Clan of Ningzhou has some opinions of Star Palace cultivators like you.
呵，你们星宫的男修不都这样？¤Well, aren't the male cultivators of Star Palace all like this?
（虽说是有事找我，但他也是盛情相待在先，该帮这个忙么？）¤(Even though he's asking for my help, he did treat me with great hospitality first. Should I help him with this matter?)
怕你不成？¤Are you afraid you can't do it?
所以若是{FirstName}{$NickName}能帮{$ZaiXia}提点提点这星宫弟子，感激不尽。¤Therefore, if {FirstName}{$NickName} could give some guidance to {$ZaiXia} as a star palace disciple, it would be greatly appreciated.
算了，回去复命吧。¤Never mind, let's go back and report.
等我消息吧。¤Wait for my message.
不用客气，我对星宫的男性修士也没什么好感。¤Don't be polite, I don't have a good impression of male cultivators in Star Palace either.
{$NpcName}闻言只是爽朗地两声大笑，似乎是早就知道你会这么问。¤{$NpcName} just laughed heartily upon hearing your question, as if he had known you would ask this all along.
话说回来，近期我发现有一星宫男性长老时常于星河剑派外滞留，也不知是为何。¤Speaking of which, recently I discovered that an elder from the Star Palace is often lingering outside the Celestial River Sword Sect, but I have no idea why.
当然不是，此事说来话长，但告诉你也无妨。¤Of course not, this is a long story, but I can tell you if you don't mind.
说的好听，还不是一见到星宫的男性修士就满脸厌恶。¤It sounds nice, but in reality, she couldn't help but feel disgusted whenever she encountered male cultivators from Star Palace.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，好久不见，近来可好？¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, long time no see, how have you been?
只是因为他待在星河剑派附近么？¤Is it just because he stayed near the Celestial River Sword Sect?
可惜这星宫的男修士虽令人厌恶，但也不能归于魔教一类，不然哪用这么麻烦。¤Unfortunately, although the male cultivators from Star Palace are unpleasant, they cannot be classified as demonic cultivators. Otherwise, why bother with such trouble.
且慢，若是叙旧只怕不会有这么大排场，{$NpcName}不如说在前头。¤Wait a moment, if we're just catching up, there's no need for such a grand introduction. Let {$NpcName} go first.
{$NickName}今日找我来怕不只是叙旧罢？¤Is {$NickName} here to do more than just catch up today?
举手之劳而已。¤It's just a small effort.
推杯换盏之间，你见他突然提起此事，心想正事要来了。但表面上还是装作不知，仅是随口应付。¤Between pushing cups and changing toasts, you saw him suddenly bring up this matter and thought that something important was about to happen. But on the surface, you still pretended not to know and just casually brushed it off with a response.
那星宫修士便在星河剑派往青石灵脉的支路上，{FirstName}{$NickName}多加小心。¤That Star Palace cultivator is on the branch route towards the Greenstone Spirit Vein in the Celestial River Sword Sect, so be careful, {FirstName}{$NickName}.
既是如此，那我另想他法好了。¤In that case, I'll have to think of another way.
料想也是，强如{FirstName}{$NickName}又怎会有烦恼呢，哈哈。¤As expected, with the strength of {FirstName}{$NickName}, how could they possibly have any worries, haha.
出于星宫男性修士的名声考量，任其长期停留在星河剑派附近确实影响不太好，但他也确实未做什么出格的事情，星河门人碍于门派关系也不方便直接出手驱离他。¤Due to the reputation of male cultivators from Star Palace, it's not ideal for him to stay near Celestial River Sword Sect for a long time. However, he hasn't done anything outrageous and the members of Celestial River Sect are hesitant to directly drive him away due to their relationship with the sect.
要找{$NickName}帮忙的事嘛，确实有，但于{$NickName}的实力而言，只是件不足挂齿的小事。相比与{$NickName}叙旧饮酒而言，自当是不在话下。¤There is indeed something that requires {$NickName}'s help, but in terms of {$NickName}'s strength, it's just a trivial matter that isn't worth mentioning. Compared to catching up and drinking with {$NickName}, it's an insignificant matter.
前些年我花重金托人为我寻觅炼心芝。没想到他居然告诉我在星河剑派西方接近衡州处有炼心芝的消息，若不是此人与我合作多次，颇有信誉，我是不会相信这个消息的。¤A few years ago, I spent a lot of money to find someone to search for the Heartrend Shroom for me. Unexpectedly, he actually told me that there's news of the Heartrend Shroom in a place west of the Celestial River Sword Sect near Hengzhou. If it wasn't for this person's credibility and our many previous collaborations, I wouldn't have believed this news.
作为修士，估摸着只是在寻觅仙缘罢。¤As a cultivator, I estimate that I am only searching for xian yuan.
确实如此。¤Indeed it is so.
你别血口喷人！我只是有私事要办而已！可不会用神识探查星河剑派！¤Don't accuse me falsely! I just have some personal matters to attend to! I won't use my soul sense to investigate the Celestial River Sword Sect!
席间，你二人交流了一番修炼感悟、对修仙界的看法以及一些其他的烦扰杂事，倒也称得上是聊得尽兴。¤During the banquet, the two of you exchanged ideas about cultivation, your views on the world of cultivators, and some other trivial matters. You both enjoyed the conversation quite a bit.
很简单，帮我揍他一顿，然后赶他离开就好。¤It's very simple, just help me beat him up, and then drive him away.
你来到星河剑派左近，果然有一星宫修士于此不知用神识在探查着什么，一副聚精会神的样子，甚至没有留意你的到来。¤You arrive near the Celestial River Sword Sect and indeed, there is a Star Palace cultivator here using their soul sense to explore something, focused and absorbed to the point of not noticing your arrival.
星宫修士我也有接触过，却没有{$NickName}说的那般不堪。¤I have had some interaction with Star Palace cultivators, but it is not as abhorrent as {$NickName} claims.
在下所述皆是实情。¤The following is all true as stated by this humble one.
{size=24}这么多天都没找到，估计是没希望了，不如就此离开吧，省得看这帮伪君子的脸色。{/size}¤{size=24}It's been so many days and still no progress. It's probably hopeless. It's better to leave now than to keep looking at the faces of these pseudo-gentlemen.{/size}
那星宫男性修士便在星河剑派前往青石灵脉的支路上，还请{FirstName}{$NickName}尽快前往。¤The male cultivator from Star Palace is heading towards the branch path of Greenstone Spirit Vein in Celestial River Sword Sect. Please hurry and go there, {FirstName}{$NickName}.
哎哟，都叫你等等了啊，真疼。¤Hey, didn't I tell you to wait? It really hurts.
你本只想心平气和的询问一番，但这星宫修士不知为何态度竟如此恶劣。回想起多年前在林府遇到的那个星宫弟子，让你更是气不打一处来。¤You only intended to ask calmly, but this star palace cultivator's attitude was inexplicably hostile. Recalling the star palace disciple you met years ago in the Lin House only further angered you.
{$NpcName}脸上一喜，但很快便掩盖下去，一副什么都没发生的样子。¤{$NpcName} seemed pleased for a moment, but quickly concealed it and returned to an expressionless look as if nothing had happened.
嗯，我先去问问情况吧。¤Well, I'll go ask for love and see what's going on.
抱歉，是我错怪你了。唉，作为星宫的男性修士总是被宁州五行宗门的修士瞧不上，久而久之也有些过于敏感，还请见谅。¤Sorry, I misunderstood you. As a male cultivator from the Star Palace, it's common for us to feel sensitive to the attitudes of members from the Ningzhou Five Elements Clan. Please forgive us for that.
我只是...¤I'm just...
（看他这反应，难不成真是被冤枉的？还是先制服他再说吧。）¤(From his reaction, could it be that he is truly wrongly accused? Let's subdue him first before talking further.)
不知{$NpcName}有何棘手的事找我？¤I'm not sure what troublesome matter {$NpcName} has come to see me about?
所以是想让我帮忙逐他离开？¤So you want me to help you drive him away?
但{$NickName}为何会知道这些呢？我没记错的话，你不是星河剑派门人吧？¤But how would {$NickName} know about this? If I remember correctly, you're not a disciple of the Celestial River Sword Sect, are you?
酒尽菜绝后方推说有事而离席。¤After the wine was finished and the dishes were gone, he pushed aside his seat and claimed there was something he had to attend to.
那我便收下了。¤Then I shall accept it.
不过话说回来，辛苦{FirstName}{$Nickname}道友了，也让{$ZaiXia}和星河剑派的修士们安心不少，多谢，{$Xia}¤By the way, thank you for your hard work, {FirstName}{$Nickname} fellow daoist. It has also put the minds of fellow cultivators from Celestial River Sword Sect at ease. Thank you very much, {$Xia}.
而且实不相瞒，我有位好友也是星河剑派门人，也正是她此前在传音符中与我提起此事，我才上前询问的，结果他一开口比我还不耐烦。这才请{FirstName}{$NickName}过来相商此事。¤Moreover, to be honest, I have a good friend who is also a member of the Celestial River Sword Sect. It was her who mentioned this matter to me through a sound talisman before. I approached her for more information, but she was even more impatient than me. That's why I invited {FirstName}{$NickName} to discuss this matter.
{$NpcName}倒也不恼，又招呼你饮酒品菜，对之前的事绝口不提。¤{$NpcName} was not angry and even invited you to drink and dine, not mentioning anything about what happened before.
关心则乱嘛，理解，理解。¤Care causes chaos, understanding, understanding.
我有位交好的星河剑派修士此前在传音符中向我提起此事，还说虽然有些担心，但碍于门派关系不能随意出手逐他离开，烦闷得紧，这才请{FirstName}{$NickName}过来相商。¤I have recently heard from a friend who is a cultivator from the Celestial River Sword Sect through a sound talisman about this. They mentioned being worried about the situation but unable to take action due to their relationship with the sect. Feeling frustrated and helpless, they reached out to {FirstName}{$NickName} for advice.
这是说好的报酬，请收下。¤This is the promised reward, please accept it.
{FirstName}{$NickName}你可算来了，我这等得都...¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, you have finally come. I have been waiting for so long...
但即便如此，他当初也只是远远的感受到炼心芝的气息而已，随后便被守护在其身边的妖王给发现，只好赶紧离开了。如今不知是那炼心芝提前成熟，还是妖王用了什么手段，我在他说的位置竟感受不到炼心芝的气息，只得在这附近慢慢寻找。¤However, even then, he only sensed the breath of the heartrend shroom from afar, and was soon discovered by the demon monarch who was guarding it, so he had to leave in a hurry. I don't know if the heartrend shroom matured early or if the demon monarch used some means, but I can't feel the breath of the heartrend shroom in the position he mentioned, so I can only search slowly nearby.
辛苦{FirstName}{$Nickname}道友了，此举让{$ZaiXia}和星河剑派的修士们安心不少，多谢。¤Thank you for your hard work, Fellow Daoist {FirstName}{$Nickname}. This gesture has brought peace of mind to both me and the cultivators of Celestial River Sword Sect. Thank you.
多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}愿意前来。¤Thank you, {FirstName}{$NickName}, for coming.
{$Xiao}，不久不久，我就这急性子，你别放心上。¤Xiao, I'm just naturally impatient. Don't worry about it.
不过一点小忙而已，亏我还第一个就找你帮忙呢。算了算了，我去找其他人帮忙吧。¤It's just a small favor, and I'm the first one to come to you for help. Never mind, I'll go find someone else to help me.
那星宫修士显然是已经远去，并未听到你的言语，自然也不会有回应。¤The star palace cultivator had obviously gone far away and did not hear your words, so there was no response.
这可不是我...¤This is not me...
此事与门派无关，我与星宫从未有仇怨。¤This matter has nothing to do with the sect. I have never had any grudges with the Star Palace.
（这便是{$NpcName}说的那个星宫修士吧？）¤(Is this the Star Palace cultivator that {$NpcName} mentioned?)
整日闭关修炼是有些枯燥，但既然选择了修真一途，{FirstName}{$NickName}只怕是早就做好准备罢。¤Cultivating in seclusion day after day can be tedious, but since {FirstName}{$NickName} has chosen the path of cultivation, they must have been prepared for it a long time ago.
宁州金丹期以上的修士谁人不知这炼心芝早就在宁州绝迹，没想到还会有人以此为借口来掩盖自己令人不耻的行迹。¤Who among the cultivators in Ningzhou above the Golden Core stage does not know that the Heartrend Shroom has long been extinct in Ningzhou? It is unexpected that someone would use it as an excuse to conceal their shameful deeds.
你在星河剑派附近骚扰其中女修，还有理了？¤Are you still making trouble with the female cultivators near the Celestial River Sword Sect and claiming to be in the right?
是有此意。原本我想询问他一番，但此人有些不好交流，所以想请{FirstName}{$NickName}帮忙交涉一番。¤There is a meaning behind this. Originally, I wanted to ask him some questions, but he is difficult to communicate with, so I would like {FirstName}{$NickName} to help with the negotiations.
你本只想心平气和的询问一番，但这星宫修士不知为何态度竟如此恶劣，让你也是气不打一处来。¤You only wanted to ask calmly, but this star palace cultivator's attitude was inexplicably hostile, which made you feel angry as well.
少时，这星宫修士眼见不是你对手，也顾不上脸面，连忙出声试图让你停下手来。¤When you were younger, this cultivator from the Star Palace saw that you were not his match and didn't care about losing face, hastily speaking up in an attempt to make you stop.
{$ZaiXia}听信流言，误解星宫，当罚。¤{$ZaiXia}, having believed in the rumors and misunderstood the Star Palace, accepts the punishment.
道友对星宫的男性修士是不是有什么误解？¤Fellow cultivator, do you have any misunderstandings about the male cultivators of Star Palace?
事情其实很简单，就是有一个星宫的男性修士最近一直在星河剑派外逗留，看他那样子我就不顺眼。¤Actually, the situation is very easy to understand. A male cultivator from the Star Palace has been lingering outside the Celestial River Sword Sect lately, and I don't trust his intentions based on his appearance.
所以你不是为了星河剑派的修士停留在这附近的？¤So, you're not staying around here for the cultivators of the Celestial River Sword Sect?
你不会真是在做什么与星河剑派有关的事吧？¤Are you really doing something related to the Celestial River Sword Sect?
无须客气。¤No need to be polite.
原来如此。多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}解开此层误会，我稍候会转告星河剑派的好友。¤So that's how it is. Thank you, {FirstName}{$NickName}, for clearing up this misunderstanding. I will let my friends at the Celestial River Sword Sect know.
唉，这么些时日还未发现炼心芝的气息，只怕是已被人捷足先登了。我还是另想办法吧，省的又引起误会。¤Unfortunately, despite all this time, I have yet to detect any signs of the Heartrend Shroom. It's likely that someone else has already taken it. I should come up with another plan to avoid any misunderstanding.
（虽说可能是误会，但不论如何他也离开了，回去复命吧。）¤(Despite the possible misunderstanding, he still left. Go back and report your findings.)
不等你再说什么这星宫修士已是转身离去。只有那满溢的愤懑还留在原地，萦绕不散。¤Without waiting for you to say anything else, the Star Palace cultivator has turned around and left. Only the overflowing anger remains in place, lingering without dispersing.
那想让我怎么帮忙呢？¤How can I help you?
你也只是轻轻点头，表示没往心里去。¤You only nodded lightly, indicating that you didn't take it to heart.
但你并没有理会他的意思。直到他只守不攻连连求饶，你才在击破他防御并小小惩戒他一番后，停下手来。¤But you did not pay attention to his intentions. It was not until he repeatedly begged for mercy while only defending and not attacking, that you finally stopped after breaking through his defence and giving him a small punishment.
他为你斟好酒又以双手持杯奉上，而后才为自己也斟满。¤He pours wine for you and offers it to you with both hands before pouring himself a cup.
{$Xiao},痛快！¤{$Xiao}, enjoy yourself!
哦？既是{FirstName}{$NickName}所说，那应是不会错了。¤Oh? Since {FirstName}{$NickName} said so, it should be correct.
你刚迈入云汐城的客栈，{$NpcName}便迎了上来。打招呼的语气除高兴外似乎还掺杂些抱怨，不过反应倒是很快，后半句话还没说出口便是戛然而止。¤As you step into the inn in Yun Shi City, {$NpcName} greets you. Their greeting seems to be mixed with a bit of complaint, but they quickly stop speaking before finishing their sentence.
唉，事情是这样的。我有一位关系很好的星河剑派修士，此前在传音符中找我抱怨说最近总有个星宫的男性修士在星河剑派近旁逗留，令其有些担忧。¤Well, here's the thing. I have a close relationship with a cultivator from the Celestial River Sword Sect. He previously contacted me using a sound talisman to complain that a male cultivator from the Star Palace has been lingering around the vicinity of the sect, which has caused him some concern.
哦？愿闻其详。¤Oh? Please tell me more.
呵呵，若是寻常修士倒不无可能，但这星宫向来以双修为重，星河剑派又是女性修士圣地，只怕他是心怀鬼胎。¤Heh, it's not impossible for ordinary cultivators, but the Star Palace emphasizes dual cultivation and the Celestial River Sword Sect is a holy land for female cultivators. I'm afraid he has ulterior motives.
呵呵，{$ZaiXia}早料到他会找借口推脱，不过没想到他竟说自己在星河剑派附近寻找炼心芝。¤Hehe, {$ZaiXia} had expected him to find an excuse to reject, but didn't expect him to claim he was searching for the Heartrend Shroom near the Celestial River Sword Sect.
看你败在我手下后还敢不敢口放狂言！¤See if you still dare to speak arrogantly after being defeated by me!
怎么，我星宫修士不过是在这星河剑派的附近停留一会，在你眼里就是骚扰女修了？¤How come, just because I'm a star palace cultivator and staying near the Celestial River Sword Sect for a while, in your eyes I'm harassing female cultivators?
等...等等！你真的冤枉我了！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Wait... wait a minute! You've really wronged me! {vpunch=10,0.5}
怕不是心虚了。¤Isn't it because you're feeling guilty?
哦？为何？¤Oh? Why?
多谢！¤Thank you!
要知道这炼心芝早就在宁州绝迹，怎么可能会在星河剑派附近出现。¤You should know that the Heartrend Shroom has long disappeared in Ningzhou, so how could it possibly appear near the Celestial River Sword Sect.
若不是{$NpcName}说你在这附近骚扰星河剑派的女性修士，还托我出面赶你离开，我可没兴趣管你星宫的人想做什么。¤If it wasn't for {$NpcName} telling me that you have been harassing female cultivators of the Celestial River Sword Sect in this area and asking me to step in and drive you away, I wouldn't be interested in what people from the Star Palace want to do.
这件事嘛，对我棘手，但对{FirstName}{$NickName}你只是一桩小事而已。¤This matter is tricky for me but for {FirstName}{$NickName}, it's just a small matter.
不知{$NpcName}何事找我？¤I do not know what {$NpcName} wants with me?
那今天{FirstName}{$NickName}可是看走眼了。¤Today, {FirstName}{$NickName} really miscalculated.
{$Xiao}，不过是借口而已，{FirstName}{$NickName}切莫相信他。¤Xiao, it's just an excuse. Don't believe him, FirstName NickName.
至少我不是那么龌蹉的修士。¤At least I am not such a crude cultivator.
久等了。¤Long time, no see.
我...别派的男修士能在星河剑派附近停留，为何我星宫就不行？¤Why can male cultivators from other sects stay near Celestial River Sword Sect, but not in Star Palace?
敢说不敢认，我看你才是自己口中的小人！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Dare to say but not acknowledge, I see that you are the true villain in your own words! {vpunch=10,0.5}
怕不是你的借口罢。¤Perhaps fear is just your excuse.
只见他轻叩桌面两下，便有道童端着酒菜上前来，一一摆放于桌上。¤I only saw him lightly tap the table twice, and then a Taoist servant came forward with wine and food, placing them one by one on the table.
云汐城盈手露，干焯剑芦，天元伏龙汤，请品尝。¤Enjoy the Yun Shi City's Ying Hand Dew, the dried and boiled Sword Reed, and the Tian Yuan Dragon Soup.
星宫的男性修士嘛，走到哪都不安好心，更何况还是在星河剑派这女性修士的胜地。¤The male cultivators of the Star Palace are always up to no good, especially in the territory of the female cultivators of the Celestial River Sword Sect.
我在干嘛与你有何关系？¤What does it have to do with you what I'm doing?
还有这等说法？¤What kind of nonsense is this?
你步入云汐城客栈时，{$NpcName}正倚栏赏花。见你到来也是转头微笑，而后领你找了一处坐下。¤As you step into Yun Shi City Inn, {$NpcName} is leaning on the railing, admiring the flowers. Upon seeing you arrive, they turn their head with a smile and lead you to a seat.
来来来，喝酒。¤Come, come, come, let's have a drink.
{$NickName}说笑了。¤{$NickName} chuckled.
不过话说回来，辛苦{FirstName}{$Nickname}道友了，也让{$ZaiXia}和星河剑派的修士们安心不少，多谢。¤However, speaking of which, thank you for your hard work, {FirstName}{$Nickname} fellow daoist. It has also brought peace of mind to both {$ZaiXia} and the cultivators of the Celestial River Sword Sect, thank you very much.
就星宫男性修士那风评，我只能说尽量吧。¤With regards to the reputation of male cultivators in the Star Palace, all I can say is to try your best.
是有此意。原本我想询问他一番，但此人有些不好交流，所以只能请{FirstName}{$NickName}帮忙交涉一番。如非必要，还请不要用武力。¤There is such intention. Originally, I wanted to inquire with him, but this person is difficult to communicate with, so I can only ask {FirstName}{$NickName} to help negotiate. If possible, please do not use force unless necessary.
我之所以滞留在星河剑派附近，也不过是听说此处有炼心芝的踪迹而已。¤I stayed near the Celestial River Sword Sect simply because I heard that there were traces of Heartrend Shrooms in the area.
你再啰嗦我要动手了！¤You keep blabbering, I'm going to take action!
难得一见怎能只是叙旧呢？之前{FirstName}{$NickName}应允赴会后，{$ZaiXia}便是着手准备了。¤Rarely do we meet just to catch up. After {FirstName}{$NickName} agreed to attend, preparations began at {$ZaiXia}.
岛主因身体原因正在殿内调息，特地吩咐我在此恭候道友苏醒，不知道友目前状态如何？¤The island master is adjusting their breath in the hall due to their physical condition. They have instructed me to wait here and welcome fellow daoist upon awakening. I don't know how your current status is with your body?
第二天醒来时，你发现自己身在一处清雅的房间中。整顿衣裳出门后，你见到一位连家修士正在门口等候着你。¤The next day when you woke up, you found yourself in an elegant room. After getting dressed and going outside, you saw a cultivator from the Lian family waiting at the door for you.
我已无碍了，劳道友及岛主挂心。¤I am already fine, fellow daoist and island owner need not worry.
哈哈哈，道友客气了。道友既已无恙，可方便随我前去内殿觐见岛主？¤Hahaha, fellow daoist is too polite. If fellow daoist is all right, would it be convenient to follow me to the inner hall to pay respects to the island lord?
那就烦请道友接引了。¤Fellow daoist, please guide me.
如果是外门弟子在大比中夺魁，还可以直接成为内门弟子，拜入门派中任一一位长老门下修习。¤If the outer disciple wins in the big competition, they can directly become an inner disciple and study under any elder in the sect.
没想到此行竟如此凶险，还好师妹你能平安归来。¤I didn't expect this journey to be so dangerous, but thankfully Sister, you were able to return safely.
不错{shidi}，看来你已经领取了入门的功法，至于其他的基础法术，你可以多多向外门的传功长老请教。¤Not bad {shidi}, it seems you have received the introductory technique. As for other basic spells, you can learn more by consulting the instructor elders in the outer sect.
还有一件重要的事情你须得记住，我派每隔三十年会与星河剑派联袂举办宗门大比，所有炼气期的弟子皆可参加。¤There is one important thing that you must remember. Our clan will join forces with the Celestial River Sword Sect to hold the clan competitions every thirty years, and all disciples in the Qi Refining stage are eligible to participate.
虽然我们星河剑派在这次试炼中位列前茅，但却有三位师妹在魔物的手下丧了命。¤Although our Celestial River Sword Sect ranked among the top in this trial, three of our sisters lost their lives under the hands of spirit beasts.
星河剑派？¤Celestial River Sword Sect?
你先去{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}挑选入门功法，之后再回来找我。¤First, go to the {color=#d0380a}hidden manual pavilion{/color} and choose a basic technique. Then come back and find me.
此次能战胜地魔你功不可没，不愧是我们星河剑派的弟子！¤Your contribution in defeating the earth demon this time is invaluable. You truly live up to the name of being a disciple of our Celestial River Sword Sect.
那是自然，上一届的猎魔试炼便是由我带着其他筑基期的师妹们一起参加的。¤That is natural. In the previous Demon Hunting Trial, I led other sisters in the foundation establishment stage to participate together.
我派与星河剑派素来交好，两派合力举办宗门大比也已经是很多年来的一个传统了。虽然只是外门比试，但也事关宗门荣誉，各位长老对此都非常重视。¤My sect has always had a good relationship with the Celestial River Sword Sect. The two sects have joined forces to hold the clan competitions, which has been a tradition for many years. Although it is only an outer sect competition, it is also related to the honor of the clan. All the elders take it very seriously.
{FirstName}{$daoyou}，请。¤{FirstName}{$daoyou}, please.
看来这些凡俗景色定是入不了{FirstName}{$daoyou}的眼了。¤It seems as though these mundane scenes are not worthy of catching the attention of {FirstName}{$daoyou}.
难道仅凭这块令牌，就能冒充那名杀手的身份？¤Can this token alone be enough to impersonate the identity of that assassin?
是...或者说，曾经是的。¤Was...or rather, used to be.
好酒。¤Good wine.
那名地字杀手没能活着回来，但让我意外的是，那杨雄琦也没能活着逃走。¤The earth rank assassin didn't come back alive, but what surprised me was that Yang Xiongqi didn't make it out alive either.
{FirstName}{$daoyou}能想到这一层，便已超过绝大多数的人了。¤{FirstName}{$daoyou} is already ahead of the vast majority of people by being able to think of this level 1.
既然如此，今日你我二人便只谈风月。刚刚我说的那些话，{FirstName}{$daoyou}全当没有听过便是了。¤In that case, let's only talk about romance between you and me today. Just forget about what I said earlier, {FirstName}{$daoyou}.
哈哈哈，没想到{FirstName}{$daoyou}也是懂酒之人。¤Hahaha, I didn't expect {FirstName}{$daoyou} to also be a connoisseur of alcohol.
公孙府与血剑宫素无瓜葛，即便风雨楼曾经接取过几个有关血剑宫的悬赏，但爷爷的身份亦是机密，绝非一般人能知晓的。¤Gongsun House has no connection with Blood Sword Palace. Even though Storm Manor had previously taken on a few bounties related to Blood Sword Palace, my grandfather's identity is confidential and not something that ordinary people can know.
{$daoyou}不妨将灵力灌入那块令牌，看看，那块令牌背后印着的名字是什么。¤{$daoyou} can try infusing spiritual energy into that token and see what name is printed on the back.
云汐城的花景乃宁州一绝，而城中最佳的观景之地，便是这听雨阁了。¤The flower scenes in Yun Shi City are unmatched in Ningzhou, and the best spot for sightseeing within the city is none other than the Rain Pavilion.
公孙季笑着向你敬酒。¤Gongsun Ji smiles and raises a toast to you.
此为我公孙家绝密之事，即便在风雨楼中也仅有寥寥数人知晓，本不该说与外人。¤This is a top secret matter of my Gongsun family, which only a few people at Storm Manor know. It should not be spoken to outsiders.
难道...你是想让我冒充他的身份？¤Do you want me to impersonate him?
{$daoyou}若能接下刺杀元婴以上实力目标的天阶悬赏，很快便能晋升为天字杀手。¤If {$daoyou} is able to take on heavenly-ranked assassination missions targeting those with nascent soul or higher cultivation level, they can quickly be promoted to a heaven-rank assassin.
时间长了，凶名在外，再加上各类仇杀悬赏，报酬颇丰，两兄弟也吸引了不少的散修慕名来投...这个接单杀人的组织，竟慢慢成为了宁州一股不可小觑的势力。¤Over time, with a reputation for being ruthless, coupled with various revenge killings and high rewards, the two brothers attracted many wandering cultivators who came to join them. This organization that took on assassination jobs slowly became an influential force that could not be underestimated in Ningzhou.
你来到公孙季面前坐下，他笑着替你斟了一杯酒，递到你面前。¤You sit down in front of Gongsun Ji, and he smiles and pours you a cup of wine, handing it to you.
近在眼前...原来如此...¤It was right in front of me... so this is how it is...
普通地字杀手，想来他也不会注意。但你若能成为天字杀手，或许就会成为他拉拢的对象。¤A regular assassin might not catch his attention. But if you become a heaven rank assassin, perhaps you will become someone he tries to recruit.
你与公孙季品酒赏景，相谈甚欢，似乎刚刚什么也没有发生过一样，直到傍晚方才离开...¤You and Gongsun Ji enjoyed tasting wine and admiring the scenery, chatting happily as if nothing had happened until you finally left in the evening...
不过就在数年前，我的爷爷，同时也是当时执掌风雨楼的大长老公孙璞，意外的被一名血剑宫的元婴修士所害。¤However, just a few years ago, my grandfather, who was also the grand elder in charge of the Storm Manor at that time, Gongsun Pu, was unexpectedly killed by a Nascent Soul cultivator from the Blood Sword Palace.
抱歉...我恐怕无法完全信任你。¤I'm sorry... I'm afraid I can't fully trust you.
哈哈哈，{FirstName}{$daoyou}可真是性情中人。¤Hahaha, {FirstName}{$daoyou} is truly a person of character.
你想让我怎么做？¤What do you want me to do?
公孙季看起来略微有些失落，但很快便又笑着帮你斟酒。¤Gongsun Ji seemed a little disappointed, but quickly smiled and helped you pour the wine.
若是你发现这人其实怪病缠身命不久矣，死了反而解脱，你又当如何？¤If you discovered that this person was actually plagued with a strange illness and their life was soon to come to an end, would you let them die as a way of releasing them?
风雨楼的杀手分级，全凭完成悬赏的难度所定。¤The ranking of assassins in Storm Manor is determined solely by the difficulty level of their completed bounties.
但即便不能，也可以通过大量接取地阶悬赏的方式慢慢积累声望。¤But even if not, it is possible to slowly accumulate reputation by accepting a large number of earthly tier rewards.
你缓缓将灵力注入令牌，果然有几个小字隐隐约约复现了出来...¤You slowly infused spiritual power into the token, and sure enough, a few small characters vaguely reappeared...
那些人为求心爱之物，耗费些灵石倒也是正常的。¤Those people who spend spirit stones for the sake of their beloved objects are quite normal.
听雨阁每间厢房内都藏有我公孙家布下的小型传送阵，只需用你手中的这块风雨楼令牌便可激活。¤In each side room of the Rain Pavilion lies a small teleportation array set up by my Gongsun family. Simply use the Storm Manor token in your hand to activate it.
{$daoyou}说的不错，但眼下却正是时机。¤{$daoyou} speaks well, but now is the right time.
不过听雨阁所酿的盈手露，可是修为再高深的修士都难以拒绝的妙物，不可不尝。¤However, the ying hand dew brewed in the Rain Pavilion is a wonderful item that even the most advanced cultivator cannot resist. It is a must-try.
你把酒杯放到鼻下轻轻嗅闻，只觉得芳香扑鼻，令人精神也不由的为之一振。¤You place the wine glass under your nose and gently sniff. The fragrance is aromatic and refreshing, invigorating your spirit.
远在天边，近在眼前。¤Far away in the sky, but close before the eyes.
我自然愿意信任公孙兄...何况，我也很想听听你到底所求何事？¤I naturally want to trust Brother Gongsun... Besides, I am also very curious about what you are seeking?
离火门长老杨雄琦，私通魔门古神教，叛逃在外。离火门私下开了很高的悬赏，要取此人的性命。¤Fire Gate Elder Yang Xiongqi was caught colluding with the demonic Ancient God Sect and has fled. The Fire Gate Sect has secretly offered a large bounty for his capture and execution.
{FirstName}{$daoyou}，请入座吧。¤{FirstName}{$daoyou}, please take a seat.
凭此令牌，再加上这面具，除非{$daoyou}露出什么太大的马脚，否则是断然不会被发现的。¤With this token and mask, unless {$daoyou} reveals something too obvious, they will not be discovered for sure.
我本不该出言试探，但此事毕竟多有难处。我要寻之人不仅要有不俗的实力，还必须心思机敏，否则随时可能陷入极为危险的境地。¤I shouldn't have spoken to probe, but this matter is difficult. The person I am searching for must not only have extraordinary strength but also be mentally astute, otherwise, they could fall into extremely dangerous situations at any time.
这盈手露虽说对我等修真者提升修为无甚帮助，但对那些贪杯之人而言，却是足以豪掷数千灵石求购之物。¤Although this ying hand dew does not provide much help in cultivating for us cultivators, it is still a highly sought-after item by those who are greedy for it, who may spend thousands of spirit stones to acquire it.
噢？我就不能只是为了找{FirstName}{$daoyou}一起品酒赏景么？¤Oh? Can't I just enjoy wine and scenery with {FirstName}{$daoyou}?
你拿起酒杯，微微抿了一口。酒液入口并不辛辣，而是带着微甜，口感醇厚。缓缓咽下后，整个口腔中都弥漫着残留的酒香。¤You picked up the wine glass and took a small sip. The liquid was not spicy, but rather slightly sweet and had a mellow taste. After slowly swallowing it, the residual aroma of the wine permeated your entire mouth.
你接过面具，隐约察觉到其上有灵力流转，似乎铭刻了某种特殊的法阵。¤You take over the mask, vaguely sensing that there is spiritual power flowing on it, as if it has inscribed some kind of special array.
你向杯中看去，见此酒呈透明状，色泽清亮。¤You look into the cup and see that the wine is transparent and clear in color.
听完你的回答，公孙季轻摇手中折扇，似乎若有所思...¤After listening to your response, Gongsun Ji lightly shook the folding fan in his hand, seeming to be lost in thought...
更重要的是，此事背后还涉及有关公孙府的绝密之事...所以此人必须是我能完全信任，并且也愿意完全信任我的人。¤Most importantly, this matter also involves highly classified information about the Gongsun House...which means this person must be someone I can fully trust and who is also willing to fully trust me.
{$daoyou}有所不知，但凡风雨楼杀手都会佩戴一枚特殊的面具，用以遮掩身份。¤{$Daoyou} may not know this, but every assassin from the Storm Manor wears a unique mask to conceal their identity.
此二人公开接收悬赏刺杀的任务，对于不同境界，不同实力的目标明码标价。似乎只要委托者能够出得起价，就没有他们杀不了的人。¤These two openly accept quests for assassination, with different targets of varying levels and strengths priced accordingly. It seems as long as the client can afford the fee, there is no one they cannot kill.
我与你之间的交际从未隐藏，有这层关系在，恐怕就难以取得他的信任吧？¤The communication between us has never been hidden. With this relationship, it's probably difficult to gain his trust, right?
你接过酒杯，直接一饮而尽，只觉得满口都是醇厚的酒香。¤You took the wine glass and drank it all in one go, feeling as if your mouth was filled with the rich aroma of the wine.
而想要取得琚运琦的信任，{$daoyou}只需要表现的像一个真正{color=#d0380a}为赚取赏金而来的杀手{/color}即可。¤To gain Ju Yunqi's trust, {$daoyou} only needs to act like a true {color=#d0380a}assassin here for the money{/color}.
这么多年过去了，{$daoyou}无论是心境还是修为都与当年大不相同。如今若是再遇到这些问题，{$daoyou}还会是和当年一样的答案么？¤Over the years, {$daoyou}'s mental state and cultivation have changed significantly since the past. If faced with the same problems today, will {$daoyou} give the same answers as before?
你步入厢房，只见一名白袍公子正坐于窗边，手持折扇，望着窗外。顺着他的目光向外望去，逸风城的美景一览无余。¤You step into the side room and see a young man in a white robe sitting by the window, holding a folding fan and looking outside. Following his gaze, you can see the beautiful scenery of Yifeng City.
{$daoyou}若是顶替这{$daihao}的身份加入风雨楼，就能名正言顺的领取这份赏金。这也算是我赠与{$daoyou}的一份小小的礼物吧。¤If {$daoyou} takes on the identity of {$daihao} and joins Storm Manor, {$daoyou} can legitimately claim the reward. This can be considered a small gift from me to {$daoyou}.
好，我都明白了。¤Okay, I understand everything now.
不知{FirstName}{$daoyou}有没有听说过风雨楼的名号？¤Have you ever heard of the Storm Manor, {FirstName}{$daoyou}?
传说宁州曾有一对修为高深的兄弟，一人名唤望风，一人自称听雨。他们无名无派，立足于宁州，全靠一身出神入化的暗杀手段。¤Legend has it that there were two highly skilled brothers in Ningzhou. One was called Keeping Watch, and the other called himself Listening to the Rain. They had no name or sect, but thrived in Ningzhou with their remarkable assassination skills.
哈哈哈，当然不是。¤Hahaha, of course not.
噢？那我倒是很好奇，{$daoyou}对于灵石是怎么看的？¤Oh? Well, I'm curious then. {$daoyou}, what is your opinion on spirit stones?
杀人越多，仇恨越多，宁州各派又如何能容得下这样一个组织...即便他们中的不少人，也曾在这里花钱买过他人的性命。¤The more people they kill, the more hate they accumulate. How can the various sects in Ningzhou tolerate such an organization... Even many of them have paid for someone's life here before.
风雨楼原本接下了此单，不过这杨雄琦应该是练了什么魔门的秘术，实力远超预估。¤Storm Manor was originally tasked with this job, but Yang Xiongqi seems to have trained in some sorcery of the demonic path, his strength far exceeding expectations.
没想到...以布阵闻名的公孙家背后还有这段辛秘...¤Unexpectedly...the Gongsun family, famous for their formations, have this secret behind them...
当年风雨楼门人被各大门派视为邪修，当除之而后快。最后替他们提供庇护的，正是我公孙家祖上。¤In the past, the disciples of Fengyu Manor were seen as demonic cultivators by various sects and were targeted for elimination. It was my Gongsun family's ancestors who provided them with refuge in the end.
不错，但不知{FirstName}{$daoyou}...你是否愿意相信我？¤Not bad, but I wonder if {FirstName}{$daoyou}... are you willing to believe me?
美景还需配好酒才行。这听雨阁所酿的盈手露，可是修为再高深的修士都难以拒绝的妙物，不可不尝。¤The beautiful scenery needs to be paired with good wine. This 'ying hand dew' brewed in the Rain Pavilion is a miraculous item even the most advanced cultivators cannot resist. It must be tasted.
这样的组织，本就该藏匿于地下，无论是锋芒太露到令人恐惧，还是遭人嫉妒，都绝非好事。¤This kind of organization should have been hidden underground, whether their sharpness is too revealing to be frightening, or they are envied by others, it is not a good thing.
你怀疑，风雨楼中有人故意把消息放给血剑宫？¤Do you suspect that someone in Storm Manor intentionally leaked information to Blood Sword Palace?
在{$daoyou}如今看来，灵石是什么？¤To my fellow {$daoyou}, what is a spirit stone?
我希望你能够加入风雨楼，以你的实力，或许有机会晋升为天字杀手。¤I hope you can join the Storm Manor. With your strength, perhaps there's a chance for you to be promoted to a Heaven Rank Assassin.
还记得当年与{FirstName}{$daoyou}初识时，曾在公孙府问过你几个问题，不知{$daoyou}还记得么？¤Do you still remember the time when you first met {FirstName}{$daoyou}, and I asked you a few questions in the Gongsun House? Do you still remember?
原来如此...不愧是以布阵闻名的公孙家。¤So that's it...no wonder the Gongsun family is famous for their formations.
公孙兄特地约我来此，又问了这么些奇怪的问题，应该不只是为了找我品酒赏景吧？¤Gongsun brother specifically invited me here and asked so many strange questions. It shouldn't just be to invite me to drink wine and enjoy the scenery, right?
为求自保，风雨楼遣散了大部分的门人，自此再不公开接受悬赏，而是像突然消失了一般，隐匿在了看不见的黑暗之中。¤In order to ensure their own safety, Storm Manor dispersed most of their disciples and stopped publicly accepting bounties. Instead, they disappeared as if into thin air, concealing themselves within the unseen darkness.
公孙季没有直接回答你的问题，而是拿起桌上的酒壶，替你斟了一杯酒，笑着说道...¤Gongsun Ji didn't directly answer your question. Instead, they picked up the wine pot on the table and poured you a cup of wine, saying with a smile...
所谓正派修士，也是各有私心罢了。若是这风雨楼能为他们所用，自然是好。但要是反过来威胁到了自身，那又是绝对无法容许的。¤The so-called righteous cultivators each have their own selfish motives. If the Storm Manor can be of use to them, then it is naturally good. However, if it threatens oneself in return, that is absolutely unacceptable.
一些小手段罢了。何况杀手各自的真实身份，在风雨楼中也属机密，一般来说是不会特意调查的。¤Just some minor tricks. Besides, the true identities of assassins are classified information within Storm Manor, and usually not purposely investigated.
风雨楼的规矩，是杀人，领赏。人是谁杀的，这赏金自然就应该归谁。¤The rules of Storm Manor are simple: kill and earn your reward. Whoever is responsible for the death gets the bounty.
那两兄弟中的一人就唤作听雨，我早该想到这听雨阁和他有所关联的。¤One of those brothers is called Listening to the Rain , I should have realized that there is a connection between him and the Rain Pavilion .
若是当年望风和听雨二人早早就能意识到这点，后来风雨楼也不至于因此遭重。¤If back then, the two who kept watch and listened to the rain had been conscious of this, Storm Manor wouldn't have suffered such heavy losses in the end.
公孙兄若是不信任我，今日应该就只剩品酒与赏景，断不会与我说这些了吧。¤Brother Gongsun, if you don't trust me, then today we would only have the wine and scenery left. You wouldn't talk to me about these things anymore.
若是有人出大量的灵石，向你买一位无辜者的性命呢？¤If someone offered to buy the life of an innocent person from you for a large amount of spirit stones, what would you do?
自那以后，便是由我们公孙府长老与风雨楼天字杀手共同组成的长老会在暗处掌管风雨楼，处理各类悬赏的接取事宜。¤Since then, it has been the responsibility of the Elder Council, consisting of our Gongsun House Elder and Storm Manor Heaven Rank Assassin, to secretly oversee Storm Manor and take care of all matters related to accepting rewards.
而杀死这杨雄琦，并且从那名风雨楼杀手身上拿走令牌的，恰好就是{$daoyou}你。¤And the one who killed Yang Xiongqi and took the token from the assassin of Storm Manor happens to be {$daoyou} you.
望风，听雨...这个势力便是你刚刚提到的风雨楼吧？¤Keeping watch, listening to the rain... So, the power you just mentioned is known as Storm Manor, correct?
二来，你以独立的身份进入风雨楼，或许可以找机会获取琚运琦的信任，暗中调查有关血剑宫的消息。¤Secondly, if you enter the Storm Manor as an independent individual, you may be able to find an opportunity to gain Ju Yunqi's trust and secretly investigate information about the Blood Sword Palace.
一来，天字杀手已有资格介入风雨楼长老会，到时我在长老会中也可多一分势力。¤Firstly, as a Heaven Rank Assassin, I am qualified to get involved in the Storm Manor Elder's Association. This will increase my influence in the Elder's Association.
{FirstName}{$daoyou}，我确有一事需要相助。¤{FirstName}{$daoyou}, I do have a matter that requires your assistance.
公孙兄想请我相助之事，与这风雨楼有关么？¤Does the matter that Brother Gongsun wants me to assist with have anything to do with the Storm Manor?
还有些印象。¤There are still some impressions.
爷爷死后，大长老之位便由他的弟子，在风雨楼中威望颇高的琚运琦继任。若说长老会中有谁在此事中获益最大，那便是此人了。¤After his grandfather's death, the position of grand elder was taken over by his disciple, Ju Yunqi, who was highly respected in the Storm Manor. If anyone in the elder council benefited the most from this, it would be him.
是伴生的冰精芝么，那妖王应该就在附近了。¤Is it the frostcore shroom that grows together with ice essence? Then the demon king should be nearby.
是伴生的火精芝么，那妖王应该就在附近了。¤Is it a fire spirit mushroom that coexists with other beings? Then the demon king should be nearby.
是伴生的苦蔓藤么，那妖王应该就在附近了。¤Is that the partner-plant bitter vine? Then the demon king should be nearby.
是伴生的天剑笋么，那妖王应该就在附近了。¤Is that the heavenly sword shoot that accompanies them? Then the demon king should be nearby.
是伴生的地龙干么，那妖王应该就在附近了。¤Is this the earth dragon bark that is associated with the birth of a creature? Then the demon king should be nearby.
千流岛上常设擂台，只要能在擂台上取得优秀的名次便会受到当地势力的赏识，甚至还能学习他们独特的功法...不过千流岛的供奉看起来都有些奇怪。¤There is a permanent arena on Myriad Rivers Island, where anyone who can achieve an excellent ranking in the arena will receive recognition from the local forces and even have the opportunity to learn their unique techniques... However, the guest elders on Myriad Rivers Island all seem a bit strange.
回忆此次九霄雷狱种的种种异象，你陷入了空灵顿悟之境。¤Recalling the various abnormalities that occurred during the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison planting, you are immersed in a state of ethereal enlightenment.
呼~这就是九霄雷狱的先天之雷么。¤Phew~ So this is the Precelestial Thunder of the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison.
你感受到在经过天雷的洗礼之后，大量的先天灵气强化了你的肉身。你甚至能看到一缕缕电花在肌肤之下一闪而过。¤After passing through the baptism of the heavenly lightning, you can feel a large amount of innate spirit energy strengthening your physical body. You can even see flashes of electricity flowing beneath your skin.
不错不错，这雷鸣海上人妖两族都梦寐以求的九霄雷狱，你不仅找到了还在其中收获颇丰嘛。¤Not bad, not bad. You have not only found the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison that both humans and demons covet on the Thunder Sea, but you have also gained a lot from it.
在吸收了足够的先天灵气之后你便退了出来。¤After absorbing enough sky spirit energy, you withdrew from the cultivation.
不过，这雷鸣海也非善地，既然目的达到了，我们速速离去吧。¤However, the Thunder Sea is not a friendly place. Since our goal has been achieved, let us quickly get out of the way.
这可就要从几百年前说起了，当时的百里家也是碎星岛上一大望族，掌管碎星岛坊市的贸易。¤It all started hundreds of years ago when the Baili family, one of the major clans on Shattered Star Island, was in charge of the trade in the Star Island Market.
但两族的恩怨似乎并未解决，百里族人只要离开蓬莎岛，进入龙族所在的海域便会受到攻击。¤However, the grudges between the two clans seem to be unresolved. Baili clan members are attacked as soon as they leave Pongsha Island and enter the dragon clan's territory.
你知道这宅子是百里家的？¤Do you know that this house belongs to the Baili family?
原来如此，多谢道友告知。¤I see, thank you fellow daoist for informing me.
当时海兽入侵宁州的广陵城，给当地带来了巨大的损失。几次兽潮过后大抵是龙族与广陵城及蓬莎岛签订了什么协议，他们才退回化龙海域不再生事。¤When the sea beasts invaded Guangling City in Ningzhou, it brought huge losses to the locals. After several waves of attacks, it seems that the dragon clan, Guangling City, and Pongsha Island signed some kind of agreement before they withdrew from the Shifting Dragon Sea and no longer caused trouble.
龙族穷追不舍，百里家迫不得已举族搬迁至宁州，饶是如此这龙族也不曾放弃，竟鼓动化龙海域内的海兽向宁州发起攻击。¤The dragon clan pursued relentlessly, forcing the Baili family to relocate to Ningzhou. Even so, the dragon clan did not give up and incited sea beasts in the Shifting Dragon Sea to attack Ningzhou.
你是说百里家的那栋老宅子？¤Are you referring to the old mansion of the Baili family?
麻烦道友给我说说，那栋宅子到底是怎么回事？¤Fellow daoist, could you please tell me what's the deal with that mansion?
哼，这座岛上我知道的事儿可多着呢。¤Hmph, there are many things I know about this island.
道友可知道巷里的旧宅什么来历？¤Fellow Daoist, do you know the history behind the old mansion in the alley?
后来不知怎的，这百里家竟得罪了龙族。当时碎星岛商会会长也曾试图化解矛盾，最后却不了了之。¤Later on, somehow, the Baili family managed to offend the Dragon Clan. At that time, the chairman of the Shattered Star Island Chamber of Commerce had also attempted to resolve the conflict, but it ultimately ended in no resolution.
太好了，我也正有此意。以后多跟我分享一点有趣的见闻嘻嘻。¤That's great, I actually had the same idea. In the future, please share with me some interesting things haha.
唉...爹说以我的天赋，要是用点功早就应该筑基了。还说要是我再突破不到筑基，就不让我出门了！¤Sigh… Father says with my aptitude, I should have already reached the foundation building stage with a bit of effort. He also said if I can't breakthrough to foundation building soon, he won't let me leave the house!
你怎么一付闷闷不乐的样子？¤Why do you look so gloomy?
道友，要购买仙府吗？¤Fellow daoist, do you want to purchase a fairy mansion?
道友，这处仙府的灵眼我们已经帮你升级了。¤Fellow Daoist, we have upgraded the spiritual eye of this Immortal Mansion for you.
道友，需要我带您去洞府看看吗？¤Fellow daoist, would you like me to take you to a cave to show you around?
洞府的品阶按照灵眼的等级分为上、中、下三品；品阶越高，闭关修炼的速度与灵田的收益越高。¤The cave's levels are divided into high, middle, and low grades based on the level of spiritual eyes; the higher the grade, the faster the cultivation in seclusion and the higher the yield of spiritual fields.
道友，可有意向？¤Fellow Daoist, do you have any interest?
是的，我逸风城其下是一座巨大的灵脉，由玄道宗布下一座大阵控制，交由我宁王府管理，届时我们会调整输送的灵力以提升洞府的灵眼品质。¤Yes, Yifeng City is situated on top of a vast spiritual vein, which is controlled by a large array set up by Xuan Dao Sect and managed by Ning King's Manor. We will adjust the flow of spiritual energy to enhance the quality of the Cave's spiritual eyes.
道友，这仙府售价72万灵石。¤Fellow Daoist, this immortal mansion is priced at 720,000 spirit stones.
道友来此有何贵干？¤Fellow daoist, what brings you here?
不过什么？¤But what?
道友，这仙府只能由声望达到略有薄名的修士购买。¤Fellow cultivator, this immortal mansion can only be purchased by cultivators who have achieved a slightly famous reputation.
我似乎灵石不足。¤I seem to be lacking spirit stones.
正是，我们逸风城名下正有一无主的仙府正在出售，不过...¤Indeed, our Yifeng City currently has an unowned Immortal Mansion for sale, however...
道友，这仙府升级需要22万灵石。¤Fellow Daoist, this immortal mansion upgrade requires 220,000 spirit stones.
道友，这处仙府就在我逸风城旁，以后如要改名或是升级灵眼可来找我。¤Fellow daoist, this immortal residence is located next to Yifeng City. If you ever need to change its name or upgrade its spiritual eye, you can come to me.
听闻你们这里有洞府出售？¤I heard that you have caves for sale here?
眼下这处洞府还是下品灵眼...¤The cave here is still of lower grade spirit eye...
道友来此，可是来购买仙府的？¤Fellow Daoist, have you come here to purchase an immortal palace?
不过，道友放心，我宁王府还提供付费升级的服务，嘿嘿。¤However, fellow daoist, rest assured that Ning King's Manor also offers a paid upgrade service, hehe.
道友，这仙府只能由声望达到声名远扬的修士购买。¤Fellow cultivator, this immortal mansion can only be bought by cultivators with a reputation that has become famous.
升级？¤Level up?
下品灵眼，也未免太过....¤The lower grade spirit eye is perhaps a bit too...
道友，这仙府售价5万灵石。¤Fellow daoist, this immortal mansion is priced at 50,000 spirit stones.
哼，是你赢了...¤Hmph, you won...
哼，就这么死了，真是便宜那赤发鬼和青面鬼了。¤Hmph, dying just like that, it's really giving a cheap win to the Red-haired Ghost and Green-faced Ghost.
咳咳咳...等我养好伤，一定不会放过沂山那两只小鬼！¤*cough cough*... After I recover from my injuries, I will not let those two brats from Mt. Yi off the hook!
嗯？？¤Uh??
哈哈哈哈，这天机阁不过如此，待我进去看看都有什么奇珍异宝。¤Hahaha, this Heavens Secrets Pavilion is nothing special. Let me see what kind of rare treasures it has inside.
林沐心越过宫主看到你到来，很是活泼地向你打着招呼，好像...只是出来游山玩水而已...¤Lin Muxin crossed the palace master and saw you coming, enthusiastically waving at you, as if... she was just here to enjoy the scenery...
那我和冲虚战斗前见到的宫主就是蕊宫仙子？¤So the palace master that I met before fighting Chongxu is the Immortal Ruigong?
磔磔磔，现在才知道已经晚了。¤Zhe zhe zhe, I only realize it's too late now.
一时间，眼前的场景让你有些难以置信。¤For a moment, the scene before you made you somewhat unbelievable.
但之前我不是已经帮你去公孙府讨要过极品盈手露了么？¤But didn't I already help you go to Gongsun House to ask for the best Ying Hand Dew before?
你一时间也不知该说什么，只好抱住林沐心，尝试安慰她。¤You didn't know what to say for a moment, so you just hugged Lin Muxin and tried to comfort her.
你赶到林沐心和神秘修士的战场时，却看到宫主正背对着你与林沐心交流着什么。¤When you arrived at the battlefield between Lin Muxin and the mysterious cultivator, you saw the palace master communicating something with Lin Muxin with their back facing you.
但在冲虚散人的话音落下后，在你耳旁响起的只有不远处林沐心与魔修交手的声音在阵法空间内回响。¤But after the hermit Chong Xu spoke, the only sound echoing in your ears within the array space was the distant sound of Lin Muxin fighting with a demonic cultivator.
待你和林沐心点头应承后，星凝玉手一挥，驾驭着灵气包裹住在场四人，升至高空后急速往星宫方向飞去。¤After you and Lin Muxin nodded in agreement, Xing Ning waved her jade hand and manipulated the spiritual energy to envelop the four of you before flying rapidly towards the direction of Star Palace in the sky.
你...刚才不是身受重伤了么？怎么还有余力...¤Didn't you just get seriously wounded earlier? How do you still have extra energy...
但在冲虚散人的话音落下后，在你耳旁响起的只有不远处林沐心与魔修交手的声音在昏暗的阵法空间内回响。¤But after the words of Hermit Chong Xu fell, the only sound echoing in the dim array space next to you was the sound of Lin Muxin's battle with the devil cultivator not far away.
不对哦心儿，以前指点你修炼的可都是我呢。¤Something's not right, Little Xin. You know that all the guidance you received in your cultivation came from me in the past.
但在冲虚散人的话音落下后，在你耳旁响起的只有一如既往的怨恨悲啸，除此之外就只有不远处林沐心与魔修交手的声音在昏暗的阵法空间内回响。¤But after the hermit Chong Xu finished speaking, all you could hear in your ear was the usual mournful howls of resentment, apart from the sound of Lin Muxin fighting with the demonic cultivator not far away, echoing in the dim array space.
给我添了这么多麻烦，也该消停了。¤You've caused me so much trouble, it's time for you to quiet down.
之前指点你修炼的时候，可都是这么叫的呢，心儿。¤Before, when I was instructing you in cultivation, I always called you little xin.
你当了多少年星宫宫主了？¤How many years have you been the Star Palace Master?
极品盈手露那次不是带上你了嘛。¤That time when we brought along the exceptional ying hand dew, didn't you come with us?
咳，我们神教可是实力又岂是你能窥探的。¤Ahem, the power of our Ancient God Sect is not something you can pry into.
星宫宫主啊，应该有一千多年了吧。¤Star Palace Master, you should have been around for over a thousand years now.
还是先让我缓缓吧...¤Let me take a break first...
是啊，当时我不是说了嘛，如果认真起来他可不是我对手。¤Yes, as I said at the time, if he were to take it seriously, he wouldn't be my match.
宫主？怎么回事？¤Palace Master? What's going on?
我就是{$Xing}哦，嘻嘻。¤I am {$Xing}, hehe.
第二次相遇时，你一个人就能把那邪教剿灭，结果还让我对上教主。¤The second time we met, you were able to destroy that evil cult alone, but ended up facing the cult leader together with me.
眼见冲虚散人惊慌到语无伦次的样子，你也是有些反感。¤Seeing the hermit Chong Xu in such a panicked and incoherent state was unsettling to you.
谢谢{FirstName}{$NickName}的帮助，可惜我实力不足没能保护好宫主，浪费你一番努力。¤Unfortunately, despite {$NickName}'s help, my strength was insufficient to protect the palace master. It was a waste of your effort. Thank you, {FirstName}.
刚才我在与那神秘修士战斗时，阵法突然就开始消散...那人则是一见阵法出问题就开始猛烈攻击，甚至完全放弃防守。¤Just now, while I was in combat with that mysterious cultivator, the array suddenly began to dissipate... That person immediately began to strike aggressively at the first sign of trouble with the array, even completely giving up on defense.
{$Lin}，你怎么样？¤{$Lin}, how are you?
{$Lin}你早就知道了？¤{$Lin}, did you know this for a long time?
不，不要，我...¤No, no, I...
原来你们在更早的时候还有这么丰富的经历啊，这么有趣，还不带上我。¤Oh, so you guys had such rich experiences even earlier, how interesting, and you didn't take me along.
你赶到林沐心和神秘修士的战场时，这里站着的已只有林沐心。而那神秘修士却是不知去向，倒是宫主还倒在一片沙化的土地上。¤When you arrived at the battlefield of Lin Muxin and the mysterious cultivator, only Lin Muxin was still standing here. The whereabouts of the mysterious cultivator was unclear, but the palace master was lying on a piece of sandy land.
嘻嘻，那我们先回星宫吧。¤Hehe, let's go back to the Star Palace first.
{size=28}都说了不要叫我心儿了...{/size}¤{size=28}I told you not to call me Little Xin anymore...{/size}
盈手露啊，那只是刚好嘴馋了而已，不作数的哦，嘻嘻。¤Ying hand dew, that's just because I happened to have a craving, it doesn't count, hehe.
但在冲虚散人的话音落下后，在你耳旁响起的只有一如既往的怨恨悲啸，除此之外就只有不远处林沐心与魔修交手的声音在阵法空间内回响。¤But after the words of Hermit Chong Xu fell, what echoed in your ears was nothing but the perennial wailing of resentment and grief. Apart from this, the sounds of the battle between Lin Muxin and the demonic cultivator echoed inside the array space not far away.
那三百年前在林家那次，你明明就是宫主，为何还引来冲虚散人，这可不是我主动的了吧？¤Back at the Lin family three hundred years ago, you were clearly the palace lord. Why did you still invite Hermit Chong Xu? It wasn't my doing, right?
你一阵无语时，却看见林沐心在宫主背后偷笑。¤When you were speechless for a moment, you saw Lin Muxin giggling behind the palace master.
你还在提出自己的疑问，却看到星宫宫主转过身来，你看到她怀里还有穿着同样衣服的另一位“宫主”。¤You were still questioning yourself when the Star Palace Master turned around, and you noticed another Palace Master dressed in identical clothing in her arms.
警惕半晌后，你终于是忍不住开了口。而冲虚散人狰狞的表情也是逐渐消融，留下的只有惊慌与绝望。¤After being alert for a while, you couldn't help but speak. The fierce expression of Hermit Chong Xu gradually dissipated, leaving only panic and despair.
呵，两三百年过去你还是没有长进嘛，看来费劲心力破除你这奇门绝魂阵真是多此一举。¤Heh, it seems like you haven't made any progress in the past two or three hundred years. It looks like it was a waste of effort to break your Qimen Jue Soul Array.
星铃儿嘛，不是我女儿哦。¤Star Bell isn't my daughter.
刚才我在与那神秘修士战斗时，阵法突然开始消散。那人之前像是在设法拖住我，一见阵法出问题却开始拼命。¤Just now, while I was fighting with that mysterious cultivator, the array suddenly started to dissipate. That person seemed to have been trying to hold me down, but when the array malfunctioned, they started to fight with all their might.
你上前检查了一番宫主的状况，果然已是神魂消散，只剩一副了无生气的躯壳而已。¤You approached and inspected the condition of the palace lord and indeed, their soul had dissipated, leaving only a lifeless shell behind.
不，不会的...咳，咳咳...明明说好的，只要除去你们，我就可以趁势入主星宫，将来为神教踏破宁州出一份力换取突破的机缘...不...不会的，神教不会骗我的...¤No, I won't do it... cough, cough... We had an agreement. As long as I eliminate you all, I can take over the Star Palace and help the Ancient God Sect break through in Ningzhou. I won't... I won't be deceived by the Ancient God Sect.
哦？可惜不会有下一次了。若不是你那护短的师父无惑真人极力保住你，甚至连这一次都不应该有。¤Oh? Unfortunately, there won't be a next time. If it weren't for your mentor, the expert Paragon Confusionless, protecting you so fiercely, there shouldn't have even been this one chance.
古神教？与{$Lin}战斗的那位难道是古神教的邪修？元婴修为的魔教修士怎会悄无声息的出现在宁州？¤The Ancient God Sect? Could the one who fought {$Lin} be a demonic cultivator from the Ancient God Sect? How could a nascent soul stage cultivator from the demonic sect appear in Ningzhou without anyone noticing?
（当年，若是没有我插手那场不公平的结侣，冲虚散人，无惑真人，林家姐妹，现在又该是如何呢。）¤(Back then, if I hadn't intervened in that unfair coupling, how would it be for Hermit Chong Xu, Paragon Confusionless, the Lin family sisters now?)
我...我没事...只是那神秘修士被我击中后化为了一抔黄土，有...有些惊讶。¤I...I'm fine... It's just that after I hit the mysterious cultivator, he turned into a pile of yellow earth. It's a bit surprising.
袖手旁观？你们难道来了不止两个元婴修士？¤Watching from the sidelines? You guys aren't just two Nascent Soul cultivators, are you?
星铃儿就是你，而你就是星宫宫主？¤Star Bell is you, and you are the Star Palace Master?
在冲虚散人说话时，你随意地往周围扫了一眼。在刚才的打斗中为了不彼此影响，两处战场分散了开来，林沐心虽不在你的视野范围内，但可以感知到那边是斗了个旗鼓相当，短时内分不出胜负，也不用急着去支援。¤As Hermit Chong Xu spoke, you casually glanced around. During the previous fight, the two battlefields had separated to avoid interfering with each other. Although Lin Muxin was not within your line of sight, you could sense that the battle over there was evenly matched and that there was no need to hurry to provide support.
那不是你和心儿散布谣言害我废了好多心力平息在先嘛，我只是想扳回一局。¤That was not you and Little Xin spreading rumors to make me waste so much effort to calm things down before. I just want to turn the tables.
{$Lin}...不是你的错，谁能想到这些魔教妖人竟会如此...¤{$Lin}... It's not your fault. Who could have thought that these demonic cultists would be like this...
啊？不...不是，我也是才知道的。¤Ah? No... no, I just found out too.
那次可是你主动要加入的哦，而且我也是知道他肯定不是你对手，才让你去的呢。¤That time, you volunteered to join, and I also knew that he definitely wasn't your opponent, so I let you go.
算你理多...¤I'll count you as having the upper hand...
咳，至少我用大阵击杀了星宫宫主，神教必将待我不薄，到，咳咳...到神教威镇宁州的时候，我一定会好好折磨你，让你求生不得求死不能，磔咳，磔磔。¤Cough, at least I used a big formation to kill the Star Palace Master. The Ancient God Sect will surely treat me well. When I arrive at Ningzhou, which is under the domination of the Ancient God Sect, I will torture you and make you beg for death but never receive it. Cough, cough...crucifixion, crucifixion.
谁...谁知道...¤Who... who knows...
这...这是！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤This... This is! {vpunch=10,0.5}
呀！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Ah!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
我...我...我分辨不出来啦！¤I... I... I can't distinguish it!
他最后更是在硬受我一击，趁势来到蕊宫仙子身边，我还以为...¤He finally took a hit from me, and took the opportunity to approach Immortal Ruigong's side. I thought...
带上你可不是就更“有趣”了...¤Taking you along is not just more interesting... 
是的呢。¤Yes indeed.
最后更是在硬受我一击，趁势来到宫主身边...虽然我迅速补上了致命一击，让其化为那摊沙土...但宫主的神识波动也...¤Finally, I managed to land a hit on him and took the opportunity to approach the palace lord. Although I quickly delivered the fatal blow, reducing him to a pile of sand and soil, the palace lord's soul sense also fluctuated...
原本在击败冲虚后放松的你如今又提起了警惕，虽说你不惧元婴修士的神通，但与古神教交手甚少，天知道这些魔修会些什么邪门功法。¤You, who were relaxed after defeating the False Immortal, are now alert again. Although you are not afraid of the Divine Skills of a Nascent Soul cultivator, you have rarely encountered the Ancient God Sect. Who knows what kind of sinister techniques these demonic cultivators may possess.
但...但宫主她...¤But... But the Palace Master, she...
护短？咳咳...他在乎的不过是自己的面子罢，星宫大长老的弟子修习采补之术传出去让他那张老脸往哪搁，咳磔磔。¤Protecting one's own face? Ahem... He only cares about his own reputation. If the disciple of the Star Palace Grand Elder spreads the techniques of refining and replenishing, where can he put his old face? Ahem, ahem.
甚至，在这无人知晓之地消失得如此彻底，未留下哪怕一丝痕迹。¤Even in this land unknown to anyone, he disappeared completely without leaving even a trace.
嗯...你该不会是为了多活一会在忽悠我吧。还是说，那什么玄骨抛弃你了？¤Hmm... Are you trying to fool me just to live a little longer? Or did that Xuan bone abandon you?
玄骨，你再袖手旁观就要错过机会了！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Xuan Bone, if you keep watching from the sidelines, you're going to miss your chance! {vpunch=10,0.5}
所以，我们第一次相遇时，你根本不需要我救...¤So, when we first met, you didn't need me to save...
我...我没事...但...¤I... I'm fine... but...
好像也是诶，不然我都不知道公孙家还藏了这么好的酒。¤It seems so, otherwise I wouldn't have known that the Gongsun family hid such good wine.
喂，你就没有什么想问的么？¤Hey, don't you have anything you want to ask?
这是我的道侣哦，姓柳，名红鸾，{FirstName}道友也可以叫她蕊宫仙子。准确的说，你是救了心儿和鸾儿呢。¤This is my dao companion, with the surname Liu and the name Hong Luan. {FirstName} fellow daoist can also call her Immortal Ruigong. To be precise, you saved little Xin and Luan'er.
咳，该死，咳咳，别太得意了，下次...咳咳咳，下次我一定要你好看，在神教面前，不论是你，还是星宫，都只是蝼蚁而已。¤Ahem, damn it, cough cough, don't get too proud, next time...cough cough cough, next time I'll make you see stars. In front of the Ancient God Sect, whether it's you or Star Palace, you're all just ants.
不仅如此，当年你在林家与冲虚对峙时见到的宫主也是蕊宫仙子。¤Moreover, the Palace Master you saw when confronting Chong Xu at the Lin Family years ago was also Immortal Ruigong.
没事就好。¤It's good as long as nothing happens.
好吧，好吧，辛苦了。心儿，我们回去吧。¤Alright, alright. Thank you for your hard work. Xin'er, let's go back.
{size=28}不要叫我心儿...{/size}¤{size=28}Don't call me Little Xin...{/size}
是{$Lin}那边！刚才不是还平分秋色么，难道被那什么玄骨偷袭了？不行，我得赶紧过去。¤It's from {$Lin}! Weren't they evenly matched just now? Did they get sneak struck by that Xuan Bone? No, I need to go over there quickly.
我...们带宫主回天星城吧，至少...带她回家。¤Let's take the Palace Master back to Starsky City, at least... let's take her home.
星凝玉手一挥，驾驭着灵气包裹住在场四人，升至高空后急速往星宫方向飞去。¤Xing Ning waved her jade-like hand and commanded her spirit energy to envelop the four people present, flying rapidly towards the direction of the Star Palace in the sky.
（唔，难道是我想太多，{$Lin}刚才的惊呼并不是因为出现了意外么？）¤(Well, could it be that I'm overthinking things? {$Lin}'s exclamation just now wasn't because of something unexpected, right?)
{size=24}她就是宫主...{/size}¤{size=24}She is the Palace Master...{/size}
不过若不是那废物给我求情，我只怕是早死在了星凝那贱人的手下，也不会有加入古神教的机会，磔磔磔。¤If it weren't for that useless person begging for mercy on my behalf, I'm afraid I would have died long ago at the hands of Xing Ning, that wicked woman. I wouldn't have had the opportunity to join the Ancient God Sect, zhe zhe zhe.
你无视冲虚的求饶，用神通击穿了他的泥丸宫，随后又将其元婴绞成齑粉。¤You ignore Chongxu's plea for mercy and use a divine skill to penetrate his Nascent Soul Palace, then twist his nascent soul into pieces.
你赶到林沐心和神秘修士的战场时，这里站着的已只有林沐心。而那神秘修士却是不知去向，倒是宫主身旁有一抔黄土。¤When you arrived at the battlefield of Lin Muxin and the mysterious cultivator, only Lin Muxin was standing there. The whereabouts of the mysterious cultivator were unknown, but there was a pile of yellow earth next to the palace lord.
不用再安慰了，我...们还是先带宫主回天星城吧，至少...带她回家。¤No need to comfort me anymore. Let's bring the palace master back to Starsky City first, at least...bring her home.
不过好在宫主赶到了，及时击杀了那个邪修。然后我才知道以前见到的宫主都是蕊宫仙子。¤Fortunately, the palace master arrived in time and killed that demonic cultivator. It was then that I found out that the palace master I had seen before were all Immortal Ruigongs.
这就送你上路吧，不，应该让你完全消失在此世间。¤Let me send you on your way, no, I should make you completely disappear from this world.
这就是你所谓的阵法威能么？奇门绝魂阵，呵，名字倒是听起来挺厉害，只可惜配上了你这不堪一击的废物。¤Is this what you call the power of an array? Qimen Jue Soul Array, hm, the name sounds impressive, unfortunately it's paired with a useless trash like you.
冲虚散人又咳出两口血，显然是受伤不轻。面色虽是愈发苍白，但表情却愈发扭曲狰狞。¤The hermit Chong Xu coughed up two mouthfuls of blood, clearly injured. Though his face grew even paler, his expression twisted and grimaced.
至此，不知悔改的冲虚散人终于是结束自己漫长且卑劣的一生，随着奇门绝魂阵的溃殂，落得魂飞魄散的下场。¤At this point, the unrepentant hermit Chong Xu finally ended his long and despicable life, meeting his demise as the Qimen Jue Soul Array collapsed, leading to his soul scattering.
{FirstName}道友，此番多谢了，要不是你，我和心儿只怕是要受困于冲虚散人与古神教之手。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, thank you very much. Without you, little Xin and I would have been in the hands of Hermit Chong Xu and the Ancient God Sect.
不远处传来林沐心的惊呼，打断了你短暂的思考。¤From not far away came Lin Muxin's exclamation, interrupting your brief contemplation.
我曾经可是在离火门待过两年，尽得炼器真传！好的法器往往蕴含玄机，关键时候以灵力催动，便能助你反败为胜。¤I used to stay in Fire Gate Sect for two years and learned the true art of refining! Good magic tools often contain mysteries, and when activated with spiritual power at a critical moment, they can help you turn the tables and win.
你这儿的兵器可比我这把破剑漂亮多了！¤The weapons here are much prettier than my old sword!
有什么好看的，还不快去修炼！¤What's there to watch, hurry up and cultivate!
虽然主要还是师父的说教，但你一些独到的理解也着实让师父意外。¤Although it was mostly the master's sermon, some of your unique insights truly surprised the master.
并没有达到第三层。¤It did not reach the third level.
战斗持续的时间越长，给敌人种下的木毒也就越多。¤The longer the duration of combat, the more wooden poison is planted in the enemy.
师父不耐烦地看了你一眼。¤Master impatiently glanced at you.
本门主修土道，但运用五行相生之法，所以金、水、木、火道也需了解一二，尤其是火道。¤As the sect leader, I specialize in the soil element, but I also utilize the phasing of the five elements. Therefore, it is necessary to have some knowledge of the metal, water, wood, and fire elements, especially the fire element.
师父略带鄙夷地看了你一眼。¤Master gave you a contemptuous glance.
可还记得同门较量的规矩？¤Do you still remember the rules of sparring among fellow disciples?
徒儿心意虽好，但要是落下了修炼可就不好了。¤Although my disciple has good intentions, it wouldn't be good if they were to neglect their cultivation.
这五柳根，是突破金丹必不可少的药材，你自己也要多备一些，到时候用得着。¤These petrificious roots are an essential medicinal material for the breakthrough to golden core. You should also prepare some for yourself because you will need them later on.
叠焰流的功法神通搭配，首先要从五行相生入手。达成五行相生的各式木系手印想必你在练气期已经掌握娴熟，我就不多废话了。¤To combine the techniques and divine skills of the Flame Stacking technique, one must first focus on the interaction between the five elements. You must be familiar with various hand seals of the wood element that interact with the other elements during the Qi cultivation stage, so I won't waste any more time explaining it.
接下来，修炼这{$gongfa}，你且听好。¤Next, cultivate in this {$gongfa}, listen carefully.
我们寿元虽长，但若没有一本天阶修炼功法，只怕修至寿元将近，也摸不到那瓶颈吧。¤Although our lifespan is long, without a heavenly cultivation technique, I'm afraid we won't be able to break through that bottleneck even when approaching the end of our lifespan.
只见师父眉头微皱，似乎在担心什么事情。犹豫片刻后，师父拿出一瓶丹药交予了你。¤I saw the frown on my master's face, as if he was worried about something. After hesitating for a moment, my master took out a bottle of pills and handed it to me.
你渐渐落入了下风，师父也及时收住了手。¤You gradually fell into a disadvantageous position, and the master also quickly stopped his hand.
只见师父眉头微皱，将信将疑地看着你，露出担忧的神情。¤I saw the master furrow his eyebrows slightly, looked at you with suspicion, and showed a worried expression.
不愧是我徒儿，就知道你不会有事。¤It's no wonder you're my disciple, I knew you wouldn't be in danger.
罢了罢了，你且听好…¤Never mind, just listen carefully...
你感悟尚浅，先去感悟{$dadao}道罢，略有小成之后，再来找我。¤Your enlightenment is still shallow, go first to enlighten yourself on the {$dadao} path. Once you have achieved slight accomplishment, come back and find me.
师父慢走…¤Master, take care...
这些东西等你有需要的时候，可以来向为师请教，也可以在藏经阁自行借阅。¤When you have a need for these things, you can come to me to learn, or you can borrow them from the Hidden Manual Pavilion.
看来你需要学习的地方还很多啊~¤It seems like you still have a lot to learn~
不过就算你能胜过为师，也不能自满。宗内的招式毕竟是少数，外面还有无数更为强大精妙的功法神通，或许连为师都未曾听说。¤However, even if you can surpass me, you cannot be complacent. The sect's techniques are limited, and there are countless more powerful and exquisite divine skills and techniques outside, which perhaps even I have never heard of.
徒儿记住了。¤Disciple remembered.
你……切，不要就不要，我拿去给别人，她们谢谢我还来不及呢。到时候你结丹就结个废丹算了。¤You...fine, if you don't want it then don't take it. I'll just give it to someone else who will be grateful for it. When it comes time for you to form your core, you'll just end up with an abolished pill.
本门的功法神通搭配，首先要从五行相生入手。达成五行相生的各式土系手印想必你在练气期已经掌握娴熟，我就不多废话了。¤To master our sect's divine skills and techniques, one must first understand the five elements' phasing. I presume you have already mastered various earth element hand seals during the Qi refining stage, so I won't waste any more words.
大殿外，众长老仍在议论寒暄时，师父向你走了过来。¤As the elders chatted outside the main hall, your master walked towards you.
蓄势流的功法神通搭配，其核心在于不要让敌人打断你的蓄势。¤The key to the techniques and divine skills of the Gathering Momentum style lies in not allowing your enemies to interrupt your momentum.
师兄的弟子失败了，倘若师弟的弟子出手成功了，岂不是说明他教导有方？若是失败了也只是大家一起失败罢了，并没有任何损失。¤Senior brother's disciple has failed, if junior's disciple can succeed, wouldn't that show he has effective teaching? If they fail together, there wouldn't be any losses.
说罢，师父转身便要离去。¤Having said that, the master turned around and was about to leave.
我的徒儿就是聪明~¤My disciple is so clever~
你若能完全掌握了凝沙诀，那么尘沙的攻守之道，你也就掌握大半了。¤If you can fully master the Sand Condensation Skill, then you will have mastered most of the attacking and defensive techniques of Dust and Sand.
是，师父。¤Yes, Master.
火道讲究强攻。所谓侵略如火，就是指进攻的时候要以最猛烈的攻势不断攻击敌人，决不退缩。¤The Fire Path emphasizes strong strikes. The saying invade like fire refers to continuously attacking the enemy with the most fierce and intense strikes during an assault, without showing any sign of retreat.
若不多寻些结丹的丹药与秘术，到时候你结了个废丹，可别找我哭鼻子。¤If you don't search for some core pills and secret arts, when you end up with an abolished pill, don't come crying to me with a runny nose.
不错，已有小成。¤Not bad, already achieved some proficiency.
借由不断使“尘”、“沙”相互转换，在攻击敌人的同时防护自身，可谓攻守兼备。¤By continuously transforming dust and sand with each other, one can both attack the enemy and protect oneself, which can be said to be both offensive and defensive.
是……¤It is...
徒儿没有问题。¤Disciple has no problem.
就算修为够了，若没有足够的丹药秘术，想突破也是难上加难……¤Even if one's cultivation is sufficient, without enough secret arts and medicinal pills, making a breakthrough would still be extremely difficult...
去外出历练，云游四海，寻觅机缘，方可有所精进……¤To improve oneself, one must venture outside to gain experience, travelling the four seas and seeking opportunities...
辛苦辛苦，这次可有什么收获？¤Hard work, hard work, what will be the harvest this time?
师父，那妖王着实厉害，徒儿还不是对手。¤Master, that demon king is truly powerful, your disciple is not yet a match for him.
本门主修水道，准确的说是水道中的冰道。¤Our sect specializes in the water path, to be precise, the ice path within the water path.
接下来，你便要着手准备结丹了。为师还有事，你且去吧。¤Next, you will begin to prepare for core formation. I have some other matters to attend to, so you may go.
对敌时需持续化焰，方可在化焰灵气之外形成一层灵气护盾。¤When facing enemies, one must continuously use the Living Flame to form a Level 1 Spiritual Shield outside of the Living Flame Spiritual Energy.
毒道的功法神通搭配，都是围绕着如何快速向敌人种下木毒。¤The technique and divine skill of poison cultivation revolve around how to quickly implant the wood poison into the enemy.
好…¤Good...
你来啦。¤You're here.
若你对阵道通透，可修习{color=#d0380a}降魔锁骨阵{/color}，其威力相当不俗。¤If you have a deep understanding of array dao, you can practice the demon locking bone array, which is quite powerful. {color=#d0380a}Note: Array dao refers to a system of knowledge and skills related to the use and manipulation of arrays, and demon locking bone array is a specific type of array that can imprison demons or evil spirits by targeting their skeletal structures.{/color}
不够。¤Not enough.
当真？你运起功法试试。¤Really? Try using your technique.
{FirstName}{shidi}，别来无恙？¤{FirstName} {shidi}, how have you been?
如何处理宗门事务，如何准备下一次突破，如何应对魔修入侵，师父都比我更有经验……¤How to handle clan affairs, how to prepare for the next breakthrough, how to deal with demonic cultivator invasions, my master has more experience than me...
好，若你以后还有什么疑问，尽管来问我吧。¤Okay, if you have any more questions in the future, feel free to ask me.
好…你且去准备吧，为师等着你的好消息。¤Alright...you go prepare yourself, this master awaits your good news.
{color=#d0380a}引力术{/color}虽然炼气就能修习，不过筑基期才能逐渐展现其威能。¤Gravitational skill can be practiced through Qi refining, but it can only gradually demonstrate its power during the Foundation Establishment phase.
虽然师父的理解远超于你，但他还是静静地听完了你的感悟。¤Although your master's understanding far exceeds yours, he still quietly listened to your enlightenment.
好说好说，可有带些什么孝敬为师？¤Easy, easy. But do you have something to offer as a token of respect to your master?
化焰流的功法神通搭配，一切都要围绕以守代攻。¤The technique and divine skill of the Living Flame School must be used together, with everything focused on defense as a means of offense.
火道讲究强攻，虽说本门是以守为攻，但仍旧是以攻为主。¤The Huo Dao emphasizes strong attacks, although our sect focuses on defense as offense, we still prioritize offense.
师父你那么厉害，为何不随手把它除掉，怎还用得着我？¤Master, you are so powerful. Why don't you just get rid of it with a flick of your hand? Why do you still need me?
总而言之，若是有足够的准备时间，就算是高阶修士，也得倒在毒功之下。¤In short, even high-level cultivators would fall to the toxicity of this skill if given enough time for preparation.
最后，除功法神通之外，有一柄好剑也至关重要。¤Finally, besides techniques and divine skills, having a good sword is also crucial.
蓄势时需要稳扎稳打，正所谓重剑无锋，大巧不工。¤To gather momentum, one must proceed with steady and deliberate steps. As they say, a heavy sword has no edge, but skill can make up for lack of finesse.
若百花齐放，则会大大增强{color=#d0380a}落英{/color}的威力。¤If a hundred flowers bloom together, it will greatly enhance the power of {color=#d0380a}flowing petals{/color}.
无妨，准备好之后再去吧。¤Don't worry, let's go after getting ready.
师尊又像往常一样，极为细心地说教了你一通。¤Master once again patiently taught you as usual.
“原来当初师父找我要五柳根，竟是为我炼丹所用……”¤I didn't realize that when my master asked for the petrificious root, it was actually for alchemy purposes...
你且记住一点，剑宗一派，无论是借助何种外物，只要能增加剑法之威能，便可助你登峰造极。¤Just remember one thing, no matter what external object you rely on, as long as it can increase the power of your swordsmanship, it can help you reach the peak.
什么受之有愧，这便是你应得的报酬，让你收下就收下……¤What's there to feel guilty about? This is the reward you deserve, so accept it if you want to...
火、气、阵道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The elements of fire and qi, as well as the field of array dao, are divided into various schools of thought. If you choose one, it can help enlighten you on the great dao.
守时不动如山，攻时天崩地裂。攻守之间的平衡，便是需要你深思熟虑的地方了。¤Being steadfast like a mountain when defending and unleashing heaven and earth-shattering attacks when attacking it is the delicate balance between defense and offense that requires deep consideration. 
这么珍贵的丹药，师父为何不自己留着呢？考验我也不用挑这么强的对手吧。¤Why wouldn't Master keep such a precious pill for themselves? There's no need to test me against such a strong opponent.
这…除了那妖兽的材料外，并无其他收获……¤This...Aside from the spirit beast's materials, there were no other gains...
关于结丹的要点，你可都记住了？¤Have you remembered the key points about core formation?
你觉得师父的表情略显阴沉。¤You feel that the expression of the master is somewhat gloomy.
罢了，你再下去练练吧，等有把握了再去。¤Never mind, keep practicing and go when you are confident.
除了冰魄经、玄冰劲外，{color=#d0380a}冰雨术{/color}也可助你更快地注入霜冻灵气。¤Apart from the Ice Soul Manual and Arcane Ice Strength, Ice Rain Spell can also help you quickly infuse Frostbite Spirit Qi.
啊？可是？¤Ah? But?
师父看了你一眼。¤Master glanced at you.
都知道了吗？¤Did everyone know already?
师父笑着看了你一眼。¤Master smiled and glanced at you.
哈哈哈哈，爽快！¤Hahaha, satisfying!
本门主修金道，但运用五行相生之法，所以水、木、火、土道也需了解一二，尤其是土道。¤As the sect leader, I specialize in the gold element, but I also incorporate the phasing of the five elements. Therefore, it's important to have some understanding of the water, wood, fire, and earth elements, especially the earth element.
罢了罢了，你要是哪里不懂，再来向我请教就是。¤It's alright, it's alright. If there's anything you don't understand, just come to me to learn.
大殿外，众长老寒暄过后皆已散去，只有你师父留了下来。¤Outside the main hall, after exchanging pleasantries, all the elders have already dispersed, leaving only your master behind.
师父笑着走到了你面前，双手抱拳作了一揖。仔细看来，笑得竟也是有些不自然。¤The master walked up to you with a smile, clasping his hands together and bowing politely. But upon closer inspection, it seemed like his smile was somewhat forced.
师父叹了口气，转身便要离去。¤The master sighed and turned to leave.
你要是不能做好这种觉悟，还不如早早放弃。¤If you can't have this kind of determination, you might as well give up early.
明白了吗？¤Do you understand?
你二人说是论道，但自己却无太多理解，大都是师父指出你不足之处后的说教。¤You two claim to be debating, but in reality, you have very little understanding and mostly just repeat what your masters have taught you after pointing out your shortcomings.
你若是打不过那妖王，这机会我可就许给别人了。¤If you can't defeat the demon king, I'll give this opportunity to someone else.
是时候走出宗门，去寻觅更大的机缘了……¤It is time to leave the clan and seek greater opportunities...
师父露出了担忧的神情。¤Master revealed a worried expression.
妖王？那水平岂不是远超寻常筑基期妖兽？我恐怕…¤Yao Wang? Wouldn't that level be far beyond the normal foundation establishment spirit beasts? I'm afraid...
也正因如此，筑基期恐怕没有办法发挥本派的真正威力。¤Therefore, it's probably impossible for the Foundation Establishment stage to fully unleash our sect's true power.
要是还有哪里不懂的，再来找我论道就是。¤If there's still something you don't understand, then come debate with me.
其实这次除了考验你之外，还是有一点小小的考量…¤Actually, aside from testing you, there is also a small consideration this time...
虽然这些理论知识你以前或多或少都听说过，不过师尊还是不厌其烦地又和你讲了一遍。¤Although you may have heard these theoretical knowledge more or less before, your master still patiently explained it to you again.
徒儿明白了，定然不负师父重望。¤The disciple understands and will not disappoint the high expectations of the master.
……知道啦，徒儿不会乱说的。¤...I know, Master. Your disciple won't speak out of turn.
徒儿还没有去…¤The disciple has not gone yet...
另一半长老你倒是经常见面，谈笑起来也比较轻松写意。但你当初拜的师父却不在此列，看到他向你走来，你反倒是有些莫名的不安。¤You often meet with the other elders and have easy and relaxed conversations with them. However, your master, whom you bowed to, is not included in this group. When you see him walking towards you, you suddenly feel an inexplicable sense of unease.
师尊又像往常一样，看似极不耐烦、又极为细心地说教了你一通。¤As usual, your master appeared extremely impatient yet meticulous as he lectured you.
师父，徒儿已经将那妖王除掉了。¤Master, your disciple has already taken down that demon king.
哈哈哈哈，好！好徒儿，以后你若还有想问为师的，便再来找我罢。¤Hahaha, good! Good disciple, if you have any more questions for me in the future, come find me again.
徒儿已经将那妖王除掉了。¤Disciple has already slain that demon king.
好…你快去准备吧，为师等着你的好消息。¤Good...you go prepare quickly, your master is waiting for your good news.
只见他脸色一沉。¤I only saw his face sink.
师父，哪有输了就跑的道理。¤Master, there is no reason to run away just because you've lost.
这个…的确很难领悟，¤This…is indeed difficult to enlighten.
你上前一把拉住了师父。¤You stepped forward and grabbed your master.
那妖王实力确实强劲，但总体来说并无大碍。¤The demon king's strength is indeed powerful, but overall there is no major problem.
这是一颗稀有的玄武丹，你在与它交手之前服用，至少能护你无虞。¤This is a rare black tortoise pill. If you take it before battling, it can protect you from harm.
接下来，何去何从，便皆由你自行定夺了……若还有何不懂，再来向我请教。¤From now on, whether to proceed or not is completely up to you... If you still have any questions, feel free to learn from me.
木道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The wooden path is further divided into several schools. You can choose any of them to help enlighten you on the dao.
你可都记住了？¤Do you remember it?
再去练练罢，等你有把握了再去。¤Go practice more, wait until you're sure before going.
若能在敌人尚未察觉时不断种下木毒，以弱胜强也并非不可能。¤If you can continuously plant wooden poisons before the enemy detects it, it's not impossible to win with weakness against strength.
若你对五行相生之道理解到位了，并且灵根比较精纯，就可以进修{color=#d0380a}陨日轮炎诀{/color}来增加爆发。¤If you have a good understanding of the principle of the Five Elements Phasing and have a pure Spiritual Root, you can study the {color=#d0380a}Meteoric Sun Wheel Inferno Skill{/color} to enhance your outburst.
师父瞥了你一眼。¤Master glanced at you.
若你灵根精纯，{color=#d0380a}纵地金光{/color}可助你快速积攒灵气，需熟练掌握。¤If your spiritual root is pure, {color=#d0380a}metallic radiance{/color} can help you quickly gather spiritual energy, but it requires proficient handling.
若你在战斗中已经积攒了“尘”，则可以使用{color=#d0380a}尘衣{/color}进行防守，也可以使用{color=#d0380a}卸甲{/color}、{color=#d0380a}天崩地裂{/color}进攻。¤If you have accumulated dust during combat, you can use {color=#d0380a}dust coat{/color} for defense, or use {color=#d0380a}armour removal{/color} and {color=#d0380a}heavenly collapse{/color} for offense.
若有疑问，再联络罢。¤If you have any questions, please contact me again.
其旨在利用引力，将四周的尘沙转为护罩防御自身。¤Its purpose is to use gravity to turn the surrounding dust and sand into a shield for self-defense.
其旨在困敌之后，汲其血脉、反哺自身。¤Its purpose is to trap the enemy, harvest their blood and essence, and use it to nourish oneself.
片刻过后，师父终于开了口。¤After a moment, the master finally spoke.
神剑诀。乃我年轻时，观连石山剑痕所悟。集剑道、金道于大成。¤Divine Sword Art. It was my insight into the sword traces of Liangshi Mountain when I was young. It combines the Sword Dao and the Golden Dao to perfection.
师父逐渐落入了下风，你在击败师父的前一刻收住了手。¤Master gradually fell into disadvantage, and you stopped at the moment before defeating him.
去准备吧。¤Get ready.
要掌握流光真诀，首先要理解的便是五行相生之道。若在使用本派杀招前先调用土系灵气，其威力增加的可不止一星半点。¤To master the Flowing Light Technique, one must first understand the principle of the Five Elements Phasing. If one were to invoke Earth Elemental Qi before using our sect's killing move, its power would increase by more than a mere half-star.
冰道讲究以寒气御敌，以内力伤敌，而非动用外力。比起直接攻击敌人，本门对于控制更为注重。¤The ice path emphasizes using cold energy to defend against enemies and using inner force to harm enemies, rather than relying on brute force. Our sect values control over directly attacking the enemy.
师父，我已将{$gongfa}修练至第三层了。¤Master, I have practiced {$gongfa} up to the third level.
虽然这些理论知识你以前或多或少都听说过，不过师尊还是耐心地又和你讲了一遍。¤Although you may have heard these theoretical knowledge before, Master still patiently explained it to you again.
为师最后点拨你一番，你且听好。¤Let me give you some final pointers as your master, listen carefully.
徒儿只是侥幸赢了师父一次罢了，并不能说明太多。¤Disciple only won master once by chance, it doesn't mean much.
若你有好好修习阵道，{color=#d0380a}赤炎灵阵{/color}与{color=#d0380a}聚灵阵{/color}也可以选择。¤If you have thoroughly studied the {color=#d0380a}array dao{/color}, you can also choose the {color=#d0380a}red hot spirit array{/color} and the {color=#d0380a}gathering spirit array{/color}.
徒儿知道了。¤Disciple knows.
世界之大，无奇不有。切莫止步于宗门。¤In this vast world, there are countless wonders. Do not limit yourself to being just a member of the clan.
那你便快去快回吧，为师等着你的好消息！¤Then go quickly and come back quickly, your master is waiting for your good news!
好！¤Good!
师父又开始了他的日常说教。你没想到就为了这个事情，竟还要被师父训斥一顿。¤Master has begun his daily lecture again. You never expected to be scolded by him just because of this matter.
金道、剑道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，都可以帮你感悟大道。¤The Golden Path and Sword Dao are further divided into several schools. You can choose any one of them to enlighten yourself about the Dao.
算了算了，{$kaoyandidian}有一个筑基巅峰妖王，你去把它给除掉，就…当作为师对你的考较了。¤Never mind, there is a Foundation Building peak demon king at {$kaoyandidian}. Go and eliminate it, consider it as a test from me to you.
有什么想请教的？¤Is there anything you want to learn?
若你剑道已然小成，需着重感悟{color=#d0380a}轻剑{/color}之道。¤If your sword dao has already reached a certain level, you need to focus on enlightening the way of the {color=#d0380a}light sword{/color}.
不过你也不能沾沾自喜，悟道小成只不过是基础而已。¤However, you cannot be complacent just because you have achieved a small enlightenment in the Dao. It is only the foundation.
…修到我们这个境界，宗门能提供给我们的帮助就很少了。¤As we reach this level of cultivation, the clan can only offer us very limited assistance.
都记住了吗？¤Do you all remember?
流光真诀在我派流传甚久。当时我年轻气盛，刚好与这功法投缘，便选择了这套功法。¤The Flowing Light technique has been passed down in my sect for a long time. At that time, I was young and full of energy, and happened to be compatible with this technique, so I chose to practice it.
再就是与水灵妙法一同流传至今的神通{color=#d0380a}怒涛{/color}。它比之浪击威力更大，但消耗灵气也更多。¤One of the divine skills that has been passed down along with the water spirit wonderful skill is the {color=#d0380a}raging wave{/color}. It is more powerful than the wave strike, but it also consumes more spiritual energy.
怎么啦？¤What happened?
本门主修木道，缠绕之道。旨在困敌自损，汲其精血。¤The sentence itself reads: As the head disciple of this sect, I specialize in the path of wood and the art of tangling. The purpose of this is to trap and weaken our enemies, drawing on their lifeblood.
总的来说，若使用本派功法神通，能尽快解决敌人自然是上选，但若是不能，则要优先考虑如何消除副作用所带来的影响了。¤Overall, using our sect's technique and divine skill to quickly resolve the enemy is the preferred option. However, if this is not possible, priority should be given to addressing the effects of any potential side effects.
无用之事，莫要浪费时间。¤Useless things, don't waste your time.
就算境界一样，我也未必是它的对手…¤Even if our realms are the same, I may not necessarily be its match.
你且听好…¤You listen carefully…
话虽如此，可仅凭这一颗丹药也结不出高品阶的金丹。若是结成的金丹不超过五品，就算结成了金丹，也几乎与结婴无缘了。反之若品阶越高，日后的修炼便越容易，结婴、乃至化神飞升的可能性就越高。¤Although that's the case, just relying on this pill alone cannot produce a high rank golden core. Even if the golden core formed is below the fifth rank, there is almost no chance of reaching the nascent stage. On the other hand, the higher the rank, the easier the cultivation will be in the future, and the higher the possibility of reaching the nascent stage, and even the deity transformation.
他一巴掌拍了下你的天灵盖，看似没用什么力，但差点把你拍了个趔趄。¤He slapped your sky spirit with one hand, seemingly without using much force, but almost made you stumble.
除此之外，为了能将爆发做到极致，“聚气”的过程必不可少，{color=#d0380a}静气诀{/color}与{color=#d0380a}燃烬{/color}就可以帮助你完成这个过程。¤In addition, in order to achieve the ultimate outbreak, the process of qi gathering is indispensable. The technique of {color=#d0380a}Tranquility{/color} and {color=#d0380a}Burning Ember{/color} can help you complete this process.
若想进一步发展，就必须去各地寻觅不同寻常的机遇。¤If you want to further develop, you must go to different places to find unusual opportunities.
这些话你可不要到处乱说，要是让别人知道了，为师定要你好看！¤Don't go around saying these things, if someone finds out, I'll make sure you regret it!
一颗聚顶丹，远远不够。你要自己去找……¤One core condensing pill is not enough. You need to find more on your own...
若是平常，考验是不会这么严苛的，只是…¤If it were a normal situation, the challenge would not be so difficult, but...
师父在讲解功法原理的同时，也演示起了功法。一个周天后，他停了下来，随手将一个玉简丢给了你。¤While explaining the principles of the technique, the master also demonstrated it. After a lap, he stopped and casually threw a jade slip at you.
这聚顶丹，你收下。¤Core Condensing Pill.
真的假的？¤Is it true or false?
师父……那徒儿接下去应该何去何从？¤Master... What path should the disciple take after accepting this task?
师父从储物袋中取出一枚青色的玉简后，便开始讲解了起来。¤Master took out a cyan jade slip from the storage pouch and began to explain.
在战斗的最初阶段，霜冻灵气生效之前，你需要抵御敌人的进攻，此时{color=#d0380a}灵水诀{/color}便大有用处。¤At the initial stage of combat, before the frostbite spiritual energy takes effect, you need to defend against the enemy's attacks. This is where the spiritual water skill can be very useful.
但若要为师叔的面子着想，等他另派人解决会不会更为妥当？¤But if we consider Senior Uncle's face, wouldn't it be more appropriate for him to send someone else to solve it?
为师最近在研制丹药，很是需要这妖丹，你看……¤I am currently researching pill refinement and I am in great need of these demon cores. What do you think?
凝沙诀乃化尘教两大功法基石之一。¤The Sand Condensation Technique is one of the foundational techniques of the Shifting Sand Sect.
剑宗之功法神通搭配，首要便是与能打出多段伤害之剑法配合，最基本的便是本门的{color=#d0380a}金虹剑法{/color}。¤The key to combining the techniques and divine skills of the Sword Sect is to pair them with sword techniques that can inflict multi-damage, with the most fundamental being the sect's {color=#d0380a}Radiant Sword Art{/color}, also known as the {color=#d0380a}Golden Rainbow Sword{/color}.
拜见师尊。¤Respectfully greeting Master.
若你感悟过阵道，也可修习{color=#d0380a}土相仙阵{/color}，为日后需修习的高阶阵法打下基础。¤If you have enlightened the array dao, you can also cultivate the {color=#d0380a}earth phase immortal array{/color} to lay the foundation for the advanced formations you will need to practice in the future.
再会。¤Goodbye.
人没事就好，待你休整好之后，有把握了再去吧。¤It's good as long as you're okay. Once you've recovered, then you can go with confidence.
师尊笑着上前拍了拍你的肩膀，便转身离开了。¤The Master smiled and patted your shoulder before turning around and leaving.
这…徒儿只是除掉了一只筑基期妖兽而已，而这聚顶丹何等珍贵，我实在是受之有愧…¤This... Disciple only eliminated a foundation establishment spirit beast, but this core condensing pill is so precious, I am really ashamed to receive it...
若你灵根精纯，{color=#d0380a}寄杖诀{/color}也能助你快速补充木系灵气，值得修习。¤If your spiritual root is pure, {color=#d0380a}Staff Control{/color} can also help you quickly replenish the wood-based spiritual energy, making it worth studying.
只见师父脸上严肃的神情稍显缓和了。¤Only to see the serious look on the master's face eased a little bit.
师父抿嘴笑了笑。¤Master smiled and pursed his lips.
若你金道已然小成，务必要参悟{color=#d0380a}蓄势{/color}与{color=#d0380a}重剑{/color}，将来必有大用。¤If your gold dao has already reached a certain level, it is important to contemplate the usage of gather momentum and heavy sword, as they will be invaluable in the future.
怎么了。¤What's wrong?
叠焰诀是筑基期数一数二的战斗功法。¤Flame Strata Arts is one of the top combat techniques during the Foundation Establishment period.
师父叹了口气。¤Master sighed.
原来如此…那徒儿便去试上一试吧。¤Oh, I see... Then the disciple will go and give it a try.
师父这阔绰的出手，让你察觉到事情并不简单。¤Master's generous actions make you realize that things are not easy.
至于尘的妙用，那便是后话了。¤As for the wonderful use of dust, that is a story for another time.
听了你的话，师父的失落像是被一扫而空，反倒大笑起来。¤After hearing your words, the disappointment of the master seemed to vanish instantly, and instead he burst out laughing.
你也不知道你哪里表现出自满了，师父便又开始对你说教起来。¤You don't even know where you displayed arrogance, so your master started lecturing you again.
化尘之功法神通搭配，自然以尘沙转换为主。¤The divine skill and technique of transforming dust are naturally focused on using dust and sand together.
谢师傅，那这丹药，徒儿便收下了。¤Thank you, Master. I will accept this pill then.
徒儿明白。¤Disciple understands.
太慢了，怎么现在才来。¤Too slow, why did you just come now.
师父露出了思虑的神情。¤The master showed a pensive expression.
金道讲究不破不立，置之死地而后生。流光真诀便是一套先破后立的功法。¤The Golden Path emphasizes breaking before building, pushing oneself to the brink before experiencing a rebirth. The Flowing Light Technique is a set of techniques that follow this principle, breaking down before rebuilding.
水灵妙法在本门流传已久，乃是最正统的水系功法。¤The Water Spirit Wonderful Skill has been passed down in our sect for a long time and is the most orthodox technique of water-based cultivation.
即便如此，你学到的东西仍旧是化尘的基础，若想真正展现其威力，还需进修更高阶的功法神通。¤Even so, what you have learned is still the foundation of dust techniques. If you truly wish to wield their power, you must further your studies in higher-level divine skills.
{color=#d0380a}沙葬{/color}作为五行相生的核心神通，与化尘另外一大功法基石{color=#d0380a}凝沙诀{/color}也有配合，需熟练掌握。¤Sand Burial, as the core Divine Skill of Five Elements Phasing, complements the other major foundation Technique, Sand Condensation Skill also known as Condensed Sand. It is crucial to master both techniques in order to utilize them effectively.
无妨，待你休整好之后，有把握了再去吧。¤It's okay, wait until you've rested and recovered well. Then you can go with confidence.
这补灵丹可保你灵气充裕，生生不息。有此丹药，想必那妖王便不在话下吧。¤This qi caller pill will ensure that your abundance spiritual energy remains restless. With this pill, defeating the demon king will be a breeze.
好了，闲话就止于此，剩下的，你便自己思量吧。¤Alright, that's enough idle chatter. The rest is up to you to consider.
哈哈哈哈哈，如今你与我一个境界，便可以同辈相称了，今后你我以师兄弟相称即可。¤Hahaha, now that we're at the same level, we can address each other as brother. From now on, we can call each other brother.
水系的功法神通搭配，首先要从五行相生入手。达成五行相生的各式金系手印想必你在练气期已经掌握娴熟，我就不多说了。¤To become skilled in the techniques and divine skills of water-based Xuanhuan novels, one must begin by understanding the concept of phasing in the five elements. Assuming that you have already mastered various metal hand signs that utilize the phasing nature of the five elements during your qi cultivation period, I will not go into further detail on that topic.
如果用最快的速度击败对手，就可以让自己受到的伤害降至最低，这就是以攻代守之道。¤If you can defeat your opponent with the fastest speed, you can reduce the damage you receive to a minimum. This is the way of using offense as defense.
这等基础都记不住？罢了罢了，你且听好…¤You can't even remember such simple basics? Fine, forget it. Just listen carefully...
“原来师父是在操心我结丹的问题…”¤So it turns out that my master is concerned about my core formation problem...
你刚来为师门下，为师且试试你这水有多深罢。¤You have just entered under my sect, I will test how deep your waters are.
算了，勉为其难再教你一次吧，你听好了。¤Never mind, I'll reluctantly teach you one more time. Listen carefully.
所以你要抓紧时间搜集结丹用的丹药秘术，仅凭为师送你的丹药和门派的结丹秘术可远远不够……¤So you need to quickly gather pills for foundation establishment and secret arts related to the core. Only relying on the pills I gave you and the sect's secret skill of dan array is far from enough...
师父又说教了你一番，就像往常一样。¤Your master lectured you again, as usual.
这个应该不难，难道是我哪里教的不好……¤This shouldn't be difficult. Is it because of my poor teaching...?
这都记不住？¤Can't even remember this?
唉……¤Sigh...
为师给你准备了一颗极其珍贵的丹药，保准万无一失。¤I have prepared an extremely precious pill for you, I guarantee that there will be no mistakes.
师父走到了你面前，双手抱拳作了一揖。仔细看来，神情竟也是有些不自然。¤The master walked up to you, and bowed with clasped hands. Upon closer inspection, his expression was actually somewhat unnatural.
哼，不愧是我的弟子，还挺厉害。¤Hmph, worthy of being my disciple, pretty impressive.
可还有疑问？¤Do you still have any doubts?
你向师父鞠了一躬，便转身离开了。¤You bowed to your master and then turned around and left.
弟子都记住了。¤The disciples all remembered.
至于如何困敌，则要靠其他功法神通。¤As for how to trap the enemy, one must rely on other techniques and divine skills.
哼，你有空想这些，还不如多想想自己结丹该怎么办。¤Hmph, you have time to think about these things, it's better to think about how to achieve core formation yourself.
水剑的功法神通搭配，其重点在于对{color=#d0380a}“振剑”{/color}的理解。¤The technique and divine skill of the Water Sword rely on the understanding of the {color=#d0380a}resonating sword{/color}.
你还是第一次见师父这副摸样，有些不知所措，大殿外竟短暂地安静了下来。¤You're seeing your master for the first time like this, and you're a little unsure. The outside of the main hall suddenly quieted down for a moment.
除开五行相生，如何积蓄力量则是重中之重。{color=#d0380a}游神御水诀{/color}配合{color=#d0380a}御水诀{/color}便可以有效地积蓄力量。¤Apart from the five elements phasing, the key to accumulating power lies in how to do so. Using the technique of {color=#d0380a}divine hydrokinesis{/color} in combination with {color=#d0380a}hydrokinesis{/color} can effectively accumulate power.
知道了吗？¤Do you know?
师父略有所思地看了你一眼。¤The master looked at you with a slightly thoughtful expression.
为师年轻时，也曾认为剑终究只是外物而已，对自身并无太多提升。现在想来，当年的想法当真平庸至极。¤When I was young, I used to think that swords were just external objects and didn't offer much improvement to oneself. Looking back now, my thoughts were truly mediocre.
辛苦了，此番可有遇到什么危险？¤Have you encountered any danger during your hard work?
况且修行又不是只有强弱之分，战斗之外的东西，师父都还没有说过…¤Moreover, cultivation is not solely based on strength in combat. Master has not even discussed the other aspects beyond fighting...
…记得，不用浴火。¤Remember, there's no need to bathe in fire.
你说什么？¤What did you say?
一向沉默寡言的师父突然话多了起来。虽然这些理论知识你以前或多或少都听说过，不过师尊还是又和你讲了一遍。¤The usually quiet and reserved master suddenly became talkative. Although you have heard some of this theoretical knowledge before, Master still explained it to you again.
若是竭泽而渔，没了后劲，则会陷入被动。¤If you exhaust all resources, then run out of momentum, you will fall into a passive position.
总而言之，若使用水系功法神通，攻势则要生生不息、连绵不绝，不给敌人喘息之机。¤In short, if using water-based techniques and divine skills, the attacks must be incessant and unending, leaving no opportunity for the enemy to rest. Divine skills must also be used to enhance the power of the technique.
你且记好…¤Remember this...
罢了，你且听好…¤Never mind, listen carefully...
可以了。¤It's enough.
师父点了点头，从储物袋中拿出了一枚丹药，递到了你的面前。¤Master nodded and took out a pill from the storage pouch, handing it to you.
好！为师等着你的好消息。¤Good! Master is waiting for your good news.
若你对五行相生之法已领悟通透，则可以进修{color=#d0380a}元戎飞沙诀{/color}与{color=#d0380a}生生造化诀{/color}，两者皆是妙用无穷。¤If you have comprehensively grasped the phasing of the Five Elements, you can further study the Yuan Rong Flying Sand Skill and the Shengsheng and Changhua Jue, both of which are extremely versatile techniques.
原来如此…但师父为何要我出手？难道师父也觉得那妖王现在到了虚弱之际？¤So that's how it is... But why did my master want me to take action? Could it be that my master also thinks that the demon king is now at a weakened state?
一个周天后，师父点了点头。¤After one week, the master nodded.
师傅领进门，修行在个人。每个人都有属于自己的战斗方式，剩下的则要靠你自己判断了。¤Master leads the way, cultivation is up to the individual. Everyone has their own way of combat, the rest is up to your own judgement.
金道讲究不破不立，大巧若拙。剑道讲究一力十惠，一招制敌。两者相得益彰。¤The Golden Path emphasizes not breaking what is established and using simplicity to achieve greatness. The Sword Dao emphasizes using one's strength to achieve ten benefits and using one move to defeat one's enemy. The two complement each other well.
眼看师父就要将那聚顶丹收回去，你眼疾手快便将它接了过来。¤As you saw your master about to retrieve the Core Condensing Pill, you acted quickly and grabbed it before they could.
千万不要小看这护罩的作用，在引力状态下，任何行为都变得极其困难。¤Do not underestimate the power of this shield. In a state of gravity, all actions become extremely difficult.
不错，在筑基期之前就能领悟到小成的，无一不是悟性极高之人。看来为师这次收到了一个好苗子啊。¤Not bad, being able to comprehend to a small extent before the foundation establishment period, every one of them is a person with extremely high comprehension. It seems that this time, the master has received a good seedling.
记住，修炼要沉得住气，不能心浮气躁。再下去练吧¤Remember, cultivation requires a calm and steady disposition. Don't let your mind wander or become impatient. Keep practicing diligently.
这么简单的东西你都忘啦？¤Did you forget something so easy?
剑道、水道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，都可以帮你提升大道感悟。¤Sword dao and water dao are further divided into several schools. Choosing any one of them can help you improve your great dao sense.
师父看了你一会，摇了摇头，便转身离开了。¤Master looked at you for a moment, shook their head, and then turned around and left.
但若你判断有误，没能一举拿下对手，情况就大为不利了。¤But if you make a mistake in your judgment and fail to take down your opponent in one move, the situation will be greatly unfavorable.
只是运气好一些罢了，实力跟师父相比，还远远不够呢。¤Just lucked out a little, my strength is still far from enough compared to my master.
你一时竟不知如何回答，只得应了下来。¤You are momentarily unsure of how to respond, and can only reply in agreement.
嗯…后会有期。¤Hmm...we'll meet again in the future.
结丹的机会只有一次，过程更是千难万险。若是结成的金丹不超过五品，就算结成了金丹，也几乎与结婴无缘了。反之若品阶越高，日后的修炼便越容易，结婴、乃至化神飞升的可能性就越高。¤The chance to form a core is only available once, and the process is incredibly dangerous. Even if one successfully forms a golden core, if it is not at least of the fifth grade, it is almost impossible to form a nascent soul. On the other hand, the higher the grade, the easier it will be for cultivation in the future, increasing the possibility of forming a nascent soul and even achieving deity transformation.
师父，我的{$dadao}道已经略有小成了。¤Master, my {$dadao} path has slightly accomplished.
玄武丹？师父，你宁愿拿出一枚玄武丹都要我去，只怕不仅仅是考较我这么简单吧？¤Black Tortoise Pill? Master, you would rather give me a Black Tortoise Pill than let me go, I'm afraid it's not just a simple test for me, right?
若你对土之道的理解已略有小成，可要好生感悟{color=#d0380a}引力{/color}之道。¤If your understanding of the Earth Dao is slightly accomplished, you should enlighten yourself on the path of {color=#d0380a}Gravity{/color}.
土之道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The Earth Dao is further divided into several schools. You can choose any one of them, all of which can help you enlighten the Dao.
结丹的机会只有一次，过程更是千难万险。若想结出高品阶的金丹，你还需要寻觅一些突破用的丹药、秘术才行……¤The opportunity to form a core only comes once, and the process is extremely difficult. If you want to form a high-level core, you need to find some breakthrough medicines and secret arts...
徒儿明白了。¤Disciple understood.
这次找你是想让你去除掉一只在{$kaoyandidian}的筑基巅峰妖王。¤This time, we are looking for you to eliminate a Peak Foundation Building Demon King at {$kaoyandidian}.
不错，出手吧。¤Okay, make your move.
……师父莫急，我待我休整之后定能除掉那妖王。¤Master, please don't worry. After I rest and recuperate, I will definitely be able to defeat that demon king.
灼烧流门槛较高，其发力在金丹期。所以本派没有人阶的灼烧功法，只有地阶功法才够资格窥其皮毛。¤The threshold for practicing Burning Flow is quite high, with its full power only accessible during the Golden Core stage. Therefore, our sect does not have any Mortal Rank Burning Techniques, only Earth-Ranked Skills qualify for getting a glimpse of its essence.
……我已经没东西教你了。¤...I have nothing left to teach you.
一个周天后，师父摇了摇头。¤One week later, Master shook his head.
师尊上前拍了拍你的肩膀，便转身离开了。¤Master went forward, patted your shoulder, and then turned around and left.
只是…？¤Just...?
你…可明白？¤Do you... understand?
但如果敌人也注重防守，这功法恐怕就讨不到好处了。¤However, if the enemy also values defense, this technique may not be effective.
师尊又像往常一样，语气略显木讷，却又极为细心地说教了你一通。¤As usual, the master spoke with a slightly awkward tone, but explained everything to you with great care.
话虽如此，但对于这种机缘有个不成文的规矩，每个长老只有一次机会出手，一次不得便不能再出手了。¤Although that's true, there's an unwritten rule regarding opportunities like these. Each elder only has one chance to make a move, and once they miss it, they can't make another one.
你这还差得远呐。¤You still have a long way to go.
本门主修剑道，但也需辅修水道。¤I specialize in the sword dao, but also need to study the water dao as well.
火道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The fire dao is divided into several schools of thought. Choosing any one of them can help enlighten you on the path of the dao.
相信你之前便已经参阅过了问水剑典，修习了惊涛剑诀与柔水无痕，对“惊涛”、“止水”已经有一定认知了。¤I believe you have already consulted the Water Invoking Sword Manual and practiced the Tidal Wave Sword and Gentle Water techniques, so you have a certain understanding of Tidal Wave and Still Water.
你初来乍到，为师且试试你的深浅罢。¤You are new here, let your master test your skill level.
总的来说，水剑一派相当灵活多变。你要是运用得当，想挑战比自己境界更高的人也并非不可能。¤In general, the Shuijian faction is quite flexible and varied. If you use it properly, it is not impossible to challenge someone with a higher realm than yourself.
敌人所受到的影响越多，战斗也就对你越有利。¤The more impact the enemy receives, the more advantageous the combat is for you.
徒儿都记住了。¤Remember, my disciples.
结果这妖王实力却远超寻常筑基期水平。他那弟子便铩羽而归了。¤Resulting in his disciple being defeated, the strength of this demon king far exceeded the usual level of foundation establishment cultivators.
一向开朗的师父，竟突地显得失落了起来。一时间，你不知所措。¤The usually cheerful master suddenly appeared lost, leaving you at a loss for what to do.
徒儿将五柳根带来了。¤The disciple brought petrificious roots.
况且，此前向你询问的五柳根，本来也是为了给你炼聚顶丹所用的。¤Furthermore, the Petrificious Root that I inquired about earlier was originally intended to be used for refining Core Condensing Pills for you.
知道就好，你可别得意忘形。我要是用上全力，你肯定不是我的对手。¤It's good that you know, but don't get too arrogant. If I use my full strength, you definitely won't be my opponent.
你害怕师父一生气又给你拍一下，一溜烟便跑了出去。¤You were afraid that your master would hit you again in anger, so you ran out quickly.
徒儿不必多礼。¤Disciple, there's no need for excessive formalities.
其他事情，你不用操心。¤You don't need to worry about other things.
就算你提升了境界，若功法神通还停留在之前的水平，水平也就强上一线罢了……¤Even if you elevate your cultivation realm, if your techniques and divine skills remain at their previous level, your strength will only improve slightly at best...
不过，你可不能满足于如今的境界。¤However, you cannot be satisfied with your current realm.
师父从储物袋中拿出了一枚丹药，递到了你的面前。¤Master took out a pellet from the storage pouch and handed it to you.
只见师尊负手而立，俨然一副高人架势。¤I saw my master standing with his hands behind his back, looking like a high and mighty expert.
百花流的功法神通搭配，自然是以百花齐放为首。¤The technique and divine skill of the Hundred Flowers Flow are naturally led by the blooming of a hundred flowers.
而舍剑气，专剑伤，正所谓金道之不破不立，实乃点睛之笔。¤As for giving up sword qi, I specialize in using my sword to injure others. It is said that without destruction, there can be no creation in the way of the gold element. This is truly the finishing touch.
虽然是筑基巅峰妖王，但你也是我弟子中的佼佼者。¤Although you are a peak demonic king at the foundation building stage, you are also one of the outstanding disciples among my students.
修炼需持之以恒，切忌心浮气躁。¤Cultivation requires persistence, and one must avoid being distracted and restless in the mind.
练成了没？¤Have you cultivated successfully?
这还差不多。你都快要结丹了，还跟为师客气，简直不像话。¤This is about right. You are almost at the core formation stage, yet you still act so politely towards me, your master. It's simply outrageous.
弟子明白。¤The disciple understood.
你按照修炼时的路线运起功法来，不一会便进入了状态。¤You follow the cultivation path and use your techniques, and soon enter a state of focus.
练的怎么样了？¤How's your cultivation going?
其次便是要合理运用自身灵气。只有懂得保存力量，持续发力，才能发挥出水灵妙法最大的威力。¤Next, it is important to use one's spiritual energy wisely. Only by understanding how to conserve their power and maintain it, can they unleash the full potential of the water spirit wonderful skill.
冰魄经是本门冰系的成名功法，其旨在先御敌，后破敌。¤The Ice Soul Manual is a renowned technique of the ice-based sect, with the aim of first defending against the enemy and then defeating them. The technique emphasizes the cultivation of ice spirits.
如今你已结丹，我已不是你师父。¤Now that you have reached the core formation stage, I am no longer your master.
其中利弊，你且好好权衡。¤Consider the pros and cons carefully.
总言之，缠绕流攻守兼备，至于如何攻守，则要看个人取舍。¤In summary, the tangled flow is both offensive and defensive, but how to use it depends on personal preference.
收下。¤Take it.
师尊¤Master.
来，出手罢。¤Come, make your move.
师父为你详细地讲解了一番对大道的理解。¤The master has given you a detailed explanation of the understanding of the dao.
若你实力不济，服下这枚补灵丹，确保万无一失。¤If your strength is lacking, take this Qi Caller Pill to ensure success without fail.
对敌时需持续向敌人注入灼烧灵气，不可急于求成。¤When facing enemies, it is necessary to continuously infuse them with burning spiritual energy and not rush for quick results.
师父略显惊讶地看着你。¤Master looked at you with a slight surprise.
师父笑了笑。¤Master smiled.
金道、剑道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The Golden Dao and Sword Dao are further divided into various schools. Choose any of them and it will help you enlighten the great Dao.
恭喜。¤Congratulations.
你与师父又论道了一番，尽管理解仍不如师父，却能令他刮目相看。¤You and your master have debated about the way once again. While you still couldn't match your master's understanding, you managed to make him take notice of you.
其悟道核心在于{color=#d0380a}盘根{/color}，你需勤加感悟，否则无法施展缠绕流真正威力。¤The core of enlightenment lies in the coiled root, which you must diligently comprehend. Otherwise, you won't be able to unleash the true power of the tangled flow.
若你对五行相生之道理解通透了，便可进修{color=#d0380a}金翎托天功{/color}，其中招式变化万千，要灵活运用绝非易事。¤If you have a deep understanding of the principles of the five elements phasing, you can then study the {color=#d0380a}golden plume to heaven kung fu{/color}, which has countless variations in its techniques and requires flexible application.
你明白了吗？¤Do you understand?
怕什么？又不是金丹期，你去打他绰绰有余。¤What are you afraid of? You're not in the golden core stage, you can easily defeat him.
没什么没什么…¤There is nothing, there is nothing...
不要骄躁，慢慢来吧。¤Don't be impetuous, take it slow.
这筑基巅峰妖王本应是我们要出手解决的问题，但师兄夸下海口说，让他门下弟子出手，便可除掉这妖王。¤The peak foundation building demon lord should have been a problem we needed to solve, but senior brother boasted that his disciples could take care of this demon lord.
你可听明白了？¤Can you understand me clearly?
{$kaoyandidian}有一筑基巅峰妖王，你去将它除掉。¤{$kaoyandidian} There is a Foundation Building Peak Demon King, go and eliminate it.
用此神剑诀，便要一鼓作气，先发制人。若是进入持久战，则会陷入被动。¤When using this Divine Sword Art, it is important to strike first and strike hard. Engaging in a prolonged battle will put you at a disadvantage.
其旨在将“尘”转换为“沙”，以细沙伤敌。¤Its aim is to transform dust into sand in order to harm the enemy with fine sand.
师父微笑着回头看了你一眼，便径直离开了。¤The master smiled and looked back at you before leaving directly.
本门主修剑道，但也需辅修金道。¤As the leader of this sect, I specialize in the sword dao, but I also need to study the golden dao as well.
本门主修火道，但运用五行相生之法，所以金、木、水、土道也需了解一二，尤其是木道。¤As the main disciple of this sect, I cultivate in the way of fire, but I also apply the principle of the five elements. Therefore, I need to have a basic understanding of the ways of gold, wood, water, and earth, especially the wood element.
故而为师的防御神通{color=#d0380a}紫莲金影罩{/color}当是首选。¤Therefore, the defensive divine skill {color=#d0380a}Violet Lotus Barrier{/color} that I possess as a teacher should be the first choice.
师父就这样离开了，什么都没有发生。¤Master left just like that, nothing happened.
师父向你点了点头。¤The master nodded at you.
但若是不能一鼓作气，一举击溃敌人，则会陷入被动。¤But if one cannot make a concerted effort and defeat the enemy in one fell swoop, one will fall into passivity.
很好，很好…以后你若还有想问为师的，便再来找我罢。¤Very well, very well... If you have any more questions for your teacher in the future, come find me again.
剑道讲究破釜沉舟，否极泰来。水道讲究静如止水，动若惊涛，进退自如。¤The art of sword dao emphasizes the last stand and turning the tide. The art of water dao emphasizes being calm as still water, yet able to surge like a tidal wave when necessary, and having the ability to move freely in any direction.
混元引气诀乃引力流基础功法。¤The Mixing and Guiding Skill is the fundamental technique of the Gravity Flow.
师父没有多说话，直接出手向你攻来。¤The master didn't say much and directly attacked you.
这个…我猜是师弟看那妖王已与人交过手，便以为它正处虚弱之际，再加上对大弟子实力的自信，方才有了这一幕。¤I guess this is because the junior saw that the demon king had already fought with someone and thought it was weak at the moment. Plus, the junior was confident in the strength of the senior disciple, which led to this scene.
没，就只是路过看看师父……¤No, I'm just passing by to see my master...
若想掌握九冲图集，首先要理解的便是五行相生之道。若熟练掌握水生木的生灵之道，便可百花齐放。¤If you want to master the Nine Rush Atlas Arts, the first thing you must understand is the way of the Five Elements Phasing. If you can proficiently master the Way of the Living Beings borne from Water and Wood, then the Hundred Flowers will bloom together.
哈哈哈哈，你猜师弟为什么要派他的大弟子去，而不亲自前往？¤Hahaha, can you guess why the junior sent his senior disciple instead of going there personally?
听了你的话，师父紧皱的眉头似乎松动了。¤After listening to your words, the master's tightly furrowed brow seemed to relax.
万象寄生诀乃缠绕流基础功法。¤The Infinite Parasitism technique is the foundational technique of the Tangled Stream.
不错不错，为师就喜欢你这性子。¤Not bad, not bad. Your personality is just what I like.
焚心诀是灼烧流基础功法，注重厚积薄发。¤The Burning Heart Mantra is a fundamental technique in the Burn cultivation method, emphasizing gradual accumulation and eventual ignition.
既然已经有前人踩过坑了，为何还要重蹈覆辙？¤Since there are already predecessors who have explored this path, why repeat their mistakes?
若你对气道通透，可修习{color=#d0380a}少阳诀{/color}或{color=#d0380a}紫阳混元劲{/color}，补充自身灵气。¤If your understanding in Qi Dao is profound, you can practice the {color=#d0380a}Shao Yang Skill{/color} or the {color=#d0380a}Purple Sun Mixed Energy{/color}, replenishing your own spiritual energy.
你悟道尚浅，当务之急还是要提升自己对大道的感悟。¤Your enlightenment is still shallow, the most urgent task is still to improve your enlightenments of the dao.
这个…徒儿此前已经用掉了…¤This...disciple has already used it before...
说罢，师父便不再开口了。你也不知道师父究竟有没有说完。一时间，二人竟面面相觑，愣在原地。数息过后，师父又开了口。¤After speaking, the master remained silent. You don't know whether the master had finished speaking or not. For a moment, the two of them looked at each other in confusion, still standing in place. After a few breaths, the master spoke again.
以后若是有哪里不明白的，可随时找为师论道。¤In the future, if there is anything you don't understand, you can always come to me for a debate.
此外，若没有足够纯净的水系灵根，使用冰系神通也是举步维艰，因此领悟{color=#d0380a}黑水真法{/color}也至关重要。¤In addition, without sufficient pure water spiritual roots, using ice divine skills also becomes very difficult. Therefore, enlightenment in the {color=#d0380a}true black water skill{/color} is also crucial.
引力流之功法神通搭配，自然是围绕引力做文章。¤The technique and divine skill of gravity flow are naturally centered around gravity.
筑基巅峰妖王岂是我一个人能战胜的？师父，你确定这里面没有出什么问题？¤Can I really overcome the peak of foundation building and defeat the demon king alone? Master, are you sure there are no issues with this?
需要注意的是，若你火道已感悟到小成，{color=#d0380a}吞焰{/color}一定要好好参悟，记住了。¤Note that if your fire path has already reached a small level of enlightenment, it is important to thoroughly comprehend the flame devouring technique. Remember this.
本门主修木道，但运用五行相生之法，所以金、水、火、土道也需了解一二，尤其是水道。¤I specialize in the Wood Path, but I also utilize the 'phasing' method of the Five Elements, so it's important to have some understanding of the Metal, Water, Fire, and Earth Paths, especially the Water Path.
这……徒儿不知。¤This...disciple does not know.
师父，徒儿收下还不成嘛…¤Master, can your disciple accept it?
{color=#d0380a}缠木诀{/color}乃缠绕流基础神通，可有效困敌。¤{color=#d0380a}Wood Wrapping Trick{/color} is a fundamental divine skill of the Tangled Stream, capable of effectively binding enemies with binding trees.
{color=#d0380a}化尘真诀{/color}乃是化尘教真正的核心，化尘诀便是为了给炼气期修士修习的它的简化版本。¤{color=#d0380a}Dust Transformation Sutra{/color} is the true core of the Shifting Sand Sect, while the Dust Transformation Mantra is a simplified version meant for Qi Refining cultivators to practice.
这样一来，本门的核心功法便能传授于你了。¤In this way, our sect's core technique can be imparted to you.
金道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The Golden Path is divided into various schools. You can choose any one of them, and all can enlighten you on the Dao.
呵呵，他们失败终究只能归结于准备不足，冒冒失失的当然成不了气候。¤Heh, their failures can ultimately be attributed to insufficient preparation. Rashness cannot lead to long-term success.
你像这样练至第三层，本门的核心你便大致掌握了，到时候再来找我罢。¤If you practice until the third level like this, you will have a rough understanding of our sect's core techniques. Come find me again then.
要掌握叠焰诀，首先要理解的便是五行相生之道。若在使用火系神通前先调用木系灵气，便可使你的火焰威力倍增。¤To master the Flame Strata Arts, one must first understand the principle of the Five Elements Phasing. If one were to invoke Wood Qi before using a Fire Divine Skill, the power of the flames would be multiplied.
任务的报酬只是一个名分罢了，无关紧要。¤The reward for the task is just a title, it's not important.
若你灵根不纯，{color=#d0380a}焰灵招徕{/color}也能将其他属性的灵气转换为火系灵气伤敌，若能熟练使用也是威力不俗。¤If your spiritual root is impure, {color=#d0380a}flame spirit invocation{/color} can also convert other attribute spiritual energy into fire attribute spiritual energy to harm your enemies. If used proficiently, it can also yield considerable power.
就筑基期而言，为师所自创的{color=#d0380a}青蛇劲{/color}与{color=#d0380a}青蛇要诀{/color}乃是最为高效的方法。¤As for the foundation establishment period, the most efficient methods created by this teacher are the {color=#d0380a}Azure Snake Art{/color} and the {color=#d0380a}Azure Snake Sutra{/color}.
本门虽说主修火道，但其实气道也必不可少，在实战中阵道也相当有用。¤Although our school primarily focuses on the cultivation of the Fire Dao, the Qi Dao is also crucial and quite useful in actual combat. The Array Dao is also highly valued in battles.
水剑神通中最难以理解的，当属{color=#d0380a}刚柔并济{/color}。你要是能把这个招式运用得巧妙，我对你也就放心了。¤One of the most difficult concepts to understand in the Divine Skill of Water Sword is the idea of rigidity and flexibility. If you can master this technique and apply it skillfully, I will have faith in you.
这玄土丹可保你土系灵气充裕，生生不息。有此丹药，想必那妖王也不在话下吧。¤This Cliffrend Pill can ensure that your earth spiritual energy is abundant and constantly restless. With this pill, defeating that demon king should be a piece of cake.
好说，好说。我还有事，便先走一步了。¤Okay, okay. I have things to do, so I'll leave first.
听到你的试探，师父不仅没有生气，反倒是笑了起来。¤Upon hearing your probing, the master not only did not get angry but instead laughed.
积沙可以成塔，积土可以成山。土之道的精髓在于厚重。¤Gathering sand can build a tower, gathering soil can form a mountain. The essence of the earth dao lies in its thickness and weight.
师父的语气不容置疑，你疑迟了一下，还是接过了这枚丹药。¤Master's tone was unquestionable, you hesitated for a moment, but still took the pill.
又寒暄了几句后，你二人便分别了。还未等你细想，又有新的长老过来恭贺，如此反复。¤After exchanging some pleasantries, the two of you parted ways. Before you could even think about it, another elder came over to congratulate you, and this repeated over and over.
呵呵呵呵，你可别答应的这么快，凡事都要三思而行。¤Hehehe, don't promise so quickly, everything needs to be carefully considered before acting.
为师忙的很，你快回去修炼罢。¤My Master is very busy, so you should quickly go back to your cultivation.
较为复杂的，要结合金道之冲穴的原理，再配合神通{color=#d0380a}纵地金光{/color}便可快速治疗内伤。¤To treat internal damage quickly, one needs to combine the principles of punch points in the gold path and use divine skill to access the metallic radiance {color=#d0380a}in a golden light.{/color}
好，若你以后还有什么疑问，尽管来问我罢。¤Okay, if you have any more questions in the future, feel free to ask me.
乾坤化剑诀是为师精通水剑之后，自创的功法。虽然说不上特别厉害，但能助你更好地理解水剑的奥义。¤The Qiankun Sword Transformation Technique is a technique that I created after mastering the Water Sword. Although it is not particularly powerful, it can help you better understand the profundity of the Water Sword.
总言之，蓄势一派需持之以恒、日积月累，没有讨巧的方法。¤In summary, the school of gathering momentum requires persistence and gradual accumulation, without any clever shortcuts.
来来来，让为师看看你现在是什么水平了。¤Come, come, let Master see what level you are at now.
就这筑基期的喽啰还需要为师出手？你不嫌丢人为师还嫌丢人。¤Do these foundation establishment minions really require my intervention? You're not ashamed for me, but ashamed for yourself.
此外，{color=#d0380a}沙葬{/color}作为化沙的核心神通，与化尘另外一大功法基石{color=#d0380a}五藏炼尘功{/color}也有配合，需熟练掌握。¤Additionally, as a core divine skill of transforming sand, {color=#d0380a}sand burial{/color} needs to be mastered in conjunction with another foundational technique, {color=#d0380a}wuzang dust refining technique{/color}, which refines dust from the five organs.
罢了罢了，你下去吧。¤That's enough, you can go down.
五毒蚀心诀乃毒道基础功法，能在不经意间给敌人种下木毒。¤The Five Poison Devouring Heart Technique is a fundamental technique in the Poison Path, capable of subtly inflicting wooden poison on an unsuspecting enemy.
这个的确很难领悟。¤This is indeed difficult to comprehend.
感悟如何？¤How is your enlightenment?
…是。¤Yes.
不必留手，出招罢。¤No need to hold back, show your move.
这聚顶丹便是此次任务的报酬，你拿着吧。¤This core condensing pill is the reward for this quest. Take it with you.
师傅将信将疑地看了你一眼。¤The master looked at you skeptically.
约莫一个时辰过后，长老们都一一拜谢过了，你才得以抽身。¤After about an hour, the elders all thanked you one by one, and only then were you able to take your leave.
师尊走了几步，笑着回头看了你一眼，便唤出飞剑，踏剑离开了。¤The master took a few steps, turned his head and smiled at you, then summoned his flying sword and flew away.
师父又像往常一样给你说教了一番。¤Master once again lectured you as usual.
唉……你果然还是领悟不通，¤Sigh... You still can't attain enlightenment after all.
你需要用各种手段骚扰、迷惑、伤到敌人，以达到制敌的效果。¤You need to use various means to harass, confuse, and hurt the enemy in order to achieve the effect of defeating them.
此道不再注重“尘”与“沙”之间的变换，而是注重天地法则，并加以运用。¤This path no longer emphasizes the transformation between dust and sand, but focuses on the laws of heaven and earth and applies them.
你将化沙、还尘使用的越是娴熟，凝沙诀的威力便越是明显。¤The more adept you are at using the sand transformation and dust retrieval techniques, the more powerful the sand condensation skill becomes evident.
师尊详细地给你讲解了{$dadao}道感悟。¤The Master explained in detail the enlightenment of the {$dadao} path to you.
这还没完，师弟看到这一幕，也派出大弟子前去除妖，回来的时候更是头破血流，狼狈不堪。¤This isn't over yet. Junior saw this scene and sent out a senior disciple to remove the demon. When he returned, he was badly injured and in a sorry state.
悟道乃水滴石穿，功到自然，切莫急功近利。¤The path of enlightenment is like water dripping through stone. Success comes naturally and one must not rush for quick gains.
哈哈哈哈，不错，这才像我徒弟！¤Hahaha, not bad, you're finally becoming like my disciple!
只见师父从储物袋中拿出了一枚丹药，扔到了你的面前。¤I saw the master take out a pill from the storage pouch and threw it in front of you.
起码得{$dadao}道小成之后，才算打牢了根基。届时再说功法神通的事吧。¤At least after reaching a minor mastery of {$dadao}, can one consider laying a solid foundation. Only then can techniques and divine skills be discussed.
要掌握水灵妙法，首先要理解的便是五行相生之道。若在使用水系神通前先调用金系灵气，便可使水流化江河，生生不息。¤In order to master the water spirit wonderful skill, one must first understand the way of the five elements' phasing. If one calls upon the metal-element spiritual energy before using water-based divine skills, the water can flow endlessly like a river.
完全不行。¤Not at all.
哈哈哈哈哈，好！为师就知道那妖王不是你的对手。¤Hahaha, good! Master knew that demon king is not your opponent.
不过水剑的奥义可不止这么点，你要学的东西还多着呢。¤But the secrets of the Water Sword are not just limited to this, there is still much for you to learn.
本门主修金道，但也需辅修剑道。¤Our sect's main cultivation is in the Golden Dao, but it also requires the cultivation of the Sword Dao.
另外，{color=#d0380a}怒涛诀{/color}可使怒涛更具威力。{color=#d0380a}滥觞{/color}则可助你更好的运用灵气，若你气道能领悟到融会贯通之{color=#d0380a}储海{/color}，那更是绝佳。¤Additionally, the Raging Wave Art can enhance the power of the Raging Wave. Surging Power can help you better utilize spiritual energy, and if you have a good understanding of Sea Storage in Qi Dao, it is even better.
感悟土之道需要大量积累，筑基期只能窥其皮毛，只有金丹期方可登堂入室。¤Enlightening the earth dao requires a lot of accumulation. During the foundation establishment period, one can only scratch the surface, and it is only during the golden core period that one can truly enter the door.
好，徒儿定不负师尊厚望。¤Okay, disciple will definitely not disappoint the high expectations of master.
境界不稳，气息不畅。¤The realm is unstable, and the breath is obstructed.
不过用此法需要极为精纯的木灵根，若木灵根不够精纯，则必须修习{color=#d0380a}万木诀{/color}才行。¤However, to use this method, one needs an extremely pure spiritual root. If the spiritual root is not pure enough, then one must practice the Myriad Woods Art.
你现在还差得远呐，得先从基础悟道修起。¤You still have a long way to go, you need to start by cultivating your foundational enlightenment.
这可就说来话长了。¤This could be a long story.
怕自然是不会，师父尽管出手罢。¤I'm not afraid of nature, Master, please take action.
在霜冻灵气逐渐开始奏效后，敌人受到内伤之后，{color=#d0380a}玄冰刺{/color}便能在注入霜冻灵气的同时，加速对方的内伤，乃是进攻的不二之选。¤After the frostbite spiritual energy gradually took effect, once the enemy received internal damage, {color=#d0380a}piercing ice{/color} can then both inject frostbite spiritual energy and accelerate the opponent's internal damage, making it the perfect offensive option.
你既已突破了到了如今境界，便与为师较量一二罢。¤Since you have already broken through to your current realm, let's have a little friendly competition, shall we?
活着回来？那说明伤势已经很严重了吧？¤Tired of living? That means your injuries must be very severe, right?
要你去你就去，怎么废话那么多？¤If I tell you to go, you go. Why waste words?
哈哈哈哈，不错，心性可嘉。¤Hahaha, not bad, your temperament is admirable.
若你对土之道的理解已略有小成，{color=#d0380a}归尘{/color}可要好好感悟。¤If you have a slightly accomplished understanding of the earth dao, {color=#d0380a}return dust{/color} must be deeply enlightened.
师父略显不耐烦地听完了你的感悟。¤The master listened to your enlightenment with a slight impatience.
妖王？师父，这应该不是我能独自解决得了的吧…¤Demon King? Master, I don't think I can handle this alone.
“惊涛”、“止水”所对应的其实便是攻守、进退之道。只有敌攻我守，敌退我进，才能发挥乾坤化剑诀的威能。¤The corresponding meanings of 'tidal wave' and 'still water' refer to the tactics of offensive and defensive, and advancing and retreating. Only by defending against enemy attacks and advancing when the enemy retreats can the Qiankun Sword Transformation Skill be fully utilized.
时白帝兴起，气宗盛行。我则偏要逆浪而行，舍弃剑气，注重剑本身的威力。功成之后，可断水摧山，我欲发扬之光大，故而立此剑宗。¤When the White Emperor rose, the Qi Sect flourished. However, I prefer to go against the tide, abandoning Sword Qi and focusing on the power of the sword itself. After achieving success, I can cut water and break mountains. I intend to spread this grandeur and establish this Sword Sect.
不错，除了考较你之外，为师也与其他几个师兄弟玩了一场游戏。¤Not bad, besides testing you, senior brother also played a game with other brothers.
这妖王果真有这么厉害？¤Is this demon king really that powerful?
是，徒儿明白。¤Yes, disciple understands.
师父的表情略显阴沉。¤The master's expression was somewhat gloomy.
总的来说，叠焰流最好一鼓作气击溃对手。但若没有得手，你必须冷静下心来积蓄力量。如果贸然进攻，定然是收效甚微。¤Overall, the Flame-Stacking Technique is most effective when used in a sudden power surge to overwhelm the opponent. However, if this approach fails, it is necessary to remain calm and accumulate power. If you rashly attack, the results will be minimal.
若你对木之道的理解已略有小成，可要好生感悟{color=#d0380a}封喉{/color}之道，莫要怠慢。¤If you have slightly accomplished the wood dao, you should carefully enlighten yourself with the seal the throat dao, don't neglect it.
本门主修土道，准确的说是土道中的引力之道。¤I am primarily adept in the art of earth element, to be precise, the way of gravity within earth element.
五藏炼尘功乃化尘教两大功法基石之一。¤The Wuzang Dust Refining Technique is one of the foundational techniques of the Shifting Sand Sect.
师父的这句话让你愣在了原地。你能感受到师父在替你高兴的同时，又有所顾虑，一时间竟不知说何是好。¤The master's words made you stunned in place. You can feel that while the master is happy for you, there are also concerns. For a moment, you don't know what to say.
此番除妖，也算是为为师完成了一个任务。这聚顶丹，你收下吧。¤This time, after removing demons, I have completed a quest for my master. Take this core condensing pill.
这都打不过，以后要是遇到魔修，怎么自保？¤I can't even defeat this. How will I protect myself if I encounter a demonic cultivator in the future?
哎，你这榆木脑袋。¤Hey, you blockhead.
所以除开五行相生，规避内伤的副作用则是重中之重。较为简单的，你只需习得{color=#d0380a}通穴{/color}便可以治疗内伤。¤Therefore, apart from the phasing of the five elements, avoiding the side effects of internal damage is the most important. To make it easy, you only need to learn how to connect acupoints to treat internal damage. {color=#d0380a}Acupoint connect{/color} is a simple yet effective method.
熔盾诀是化焰流的基础功法，以防御为主。¤The Molten Shield Mantra is the foundational technique of the Living Flame Stream, with defense as its primary focus.
…谢师父。¤Thank you, Master.
你初来乍到，究竟是深是浅，便由为师来检验一番吧。¤You've just arrived, whether you're deep or shallow, let me test you.
可有潜心修炼？¤Can you cultivate with concentration?
{color=#d0380a}离火绝炎{/color}能补充自身火系灵气，也可以配合悟道{color=#d0380a}浴火{/color}，你也需多加练习。¤{color=#d0380a}Heavenly Fire{/color} can supplement one's own fire spiritual energy and can also be used in conjunction with {color=#d0380a}Enlightenment Bathed in Fire{/color}. You also need to practice more.
你还是不确定师父到底还有没有要说的，犹豫了一会后才转身离开。而至始至终，师父都注视着你，直到你离开他的视野。¤Uncertain if your master had anything else to say, you hesitated before turning around and leaving. Throughout it all, your master watched you, until you were out of sight.
本门主修木道，准确的说是毒之道。毒之道，需厚积薄发。¤Our sect specializes in the Wood Dao, to be precise, the Poison Dao. The Poison Dao requires accumulation and gradual development.
总的来说，引力流需先改变战场的引力，再使用威力较大的神通。若还拘泥于灵活的神通，则会得不偿失。¤Generally speaking, the gravity flow requires a change in the battlefield's gravity before using more powerful divine skills. If one is still confined to flexible divine skills, the cost will outweigh the benefits.
除战斗外，尽快突破到金丹期是关键。{color=#d0380a}龟息术{/color}、{color=#d0380a}紫阳混元劲{/color}等功法对修炼帮助极大，你若对气道有一定感悟，也可修此类功法。¤Breaking through to the golden core stage as soon as possible, aside from combat, is crucial. Techniques like Turtle Breath and Purple Sun Mixed Energy greatly aid in cultivation. If you have some enlightenment in Qi Dao, you can also cultivate in these types of techniques.
竟然……？¤Unexpectedly...?
去吧。¤Go ahead.
别废话，赶紧出招。¤Stop talking nonsense, quickly use your moves.
可以。¤Okay.
本门主修水道，但运用五行相生之法，所以金、木、火、土道也需了解一二，尤其是金道。除此之外，气道对于本门也至关重要。¤As the main practitioner of the water element, I also need to understand the other four elements that are interconnected through the phasing cycle of the five elements, especially the metal element. In addition to this, the qi dao is also crucial for our sect.
若你对五行相生之道理解通透了，便可进修{color=#d0380a}生生造化诀{/color}，保证防御无虞。¤If you have a thorough understanding of the principles of the interaction between the five elements, you can then study the Shengsheng and Changhua Jue technique, which guarantees a strong defense.
之后再将其穴位冻住，造成内伤，敌人便会不攻自破。¤Afterwards, freeze the acupoints, causing internal damage, and the enemy will self-implode without any attack.
结丹并非易事，唯一机会，必须要把握住……¤Core Formation is not an easy task, and the only opportunity must be seized...
其次便是要懂得积攒自身灵气，只有这样你才能在积攒足够的焰后，还留有灵气伤敌。¤Secondly, you must know how to accumulate your own spiritual energy, only then can you have enough spiritual energy left to harm the enemy after accumulating enough flames.
需要注意的是，若你水道已感悟到小成，{color=#d0380a}冰冻{/color}一定要好好参悟，莫要荒废。¤Please note that if your water cultivation has already reached a small achievement, it is important to deeply understand the {color=#d0380a}freeze{/color} and not neglect it.
果然是第三层，不过这倒也不算什么难事。¤It really is the third level, but it's not too difficult after all.
一一道来罢。¤Come one by one.
你赢了…恭喜。¤You won...Congratulations.
哈哈哈哈哈，好！为师现在竟然都不是你的对手了。¤Hahaha, good! I am now no longer your opponent, disciple.
之所以要你出手，是因为我最为器重的弟子便是你，明白了吗？¤That's why I'm asking for your help. Because my most valued disciple is you. Do you understand?
冰系的功法神通搭配，须以控制为主。¤The technique and divine skill of the ice element should be used together, with emphasis on control.
大殿上，往来恭贺的长老们络绎不绝。¤In the main hall, there was an endless stream of elders coming and going, offering congratulations.
五柳根，乃是突破金丹必不可少的药材，若有机会，大可留心搜集若干。¤is a necessary medicinal material for breakthrough to the golden core. If there is a chance, it is advisable to collect as much of it as possible.
去，这就去…¤Go, we'll go now...
（小声嘟囔）去就去，怎么还打人…¤(Muttering under breath) If you want to go, then go. Why did you have to hit me...
说说看。¤Let's talk about it.
需要注意的是，你相生而出的神通消耗灵气越多，积攒的“尘”也就越多。¤It should be noted that the more spiritual energy consumed by your phasing divine skill, the more dust you accumulate.
要是你剑道、水道已经略有小成了，记得领悟{color=#d0380a}重剑{/color}与{color=#d0380a}止水{/color}，日后一定会派上用场的。¤If you have achieved a slightly accomplished level in the sword dao and water dao, remember to enlighten yourself with the {color=#d0380a}heavy sword{/color} and {color=#d0380a}still water{/color}. They will surely come in handy in the future.
若敌人选择稳固防守，你就需要迅速积攒“势”来压制敌人。此时{color=#d0380a}重元无锋功{/color}则是不二之选，{color=#d0380a}金虹剑诀{/color}也可锦上添花。¤If the enemy chooses to defend steadily, you need to quickly accumulate momentum to suppress the enemy. At this time, the {color=#d0380a}Heavy Element Bladeless Technique{/color} is the best choice, and the {color=#d0380a}Radiant Sword Art{/color} can also add to the mix.
嗯…自信是好事，但这次的目标也非常危险。¤Hmm... Confidence is a good thing, but this goal is also very dangerous.
那…以后你还有想问为师的，就再来找我吧。再会啦。¤If you have any more questions for me in the future, come find me again. Goodbye.
此番除妖，也算是为为师完成了一个任务。这聚顶丹，你且收下。¤This demon-removing mission can also be considered as completing a quest for me. Take this Core Condensing Pill as a reward.
只是这样一来……我也没多少东西可以教你了，你也就可以出师了……¤However, with that being said… there isn't much more I can teach you. You can now graduate…
下去练吧，练到第三层再来找我。¤Go practice, come find me again when you reach the third level.
通过五行相生叠有一定数量的“焰”后，我派杀招{color=#d0380a}爆燃{/color}的威力便能成倍提升。¤By stacking a certain amount of flames through the phasing of the five elements, the power of my martial art technique {color=#d0380a}combustion{/color} can be exponentially increased.
九冲图集乃我宗秘术，乃是一本集大成于一体的功法。¤The Nine Rush Atlas Arts is a secret art of our sect, which is a comprehensive technique that combines various techniques.
师父的表情瞬间阴沉了下来。¤Master's expression instantly became gloomy.
不行。¤No.
所谓细水长流，就是每一次出招的同时积蓄力量，以达到生生不息的效果。这也是水灵妙法的奥义。¤The so-called water grows steadily means accumulating power with each move to achieve a restless effect. This is also the essence of the water spirit wonderful skill.
哈哈哈哈，徒儿能成长到今天这一步，为师很是欣慰啊。¤Hahaha, my disciple's growth to this point today brings me great satisfaction as a teacher.
师傅领进门，修行在个人。每个人都有属于自己的战斗方式，剩下的就要靠你自己判断了。¤Master leads you to the door, but cultivation is up to you. Every person has their own way of combat, the rest is up to your own judgment.
有什么好看的，还不快去修炼。¤What are you waiting for? Go cultivate if you want to read something good.
这次考较，目标是一个筑基巅峰妖王。¤For this test, the goal is to defeat a demon king at the foundation building peak.
所以其要点在于如何拖得敌人与你进入缠斗，一旦进入持久战，你便能掌握主动。¤Therefore, the key is how to drag the enemy into a fight with you, once engaged in a prolonged battle, you can take the initiative.
关键在于你结丹的问题。如今你已是筑基后期，需要提前为结丹做好准备了。¤The key lies in your core problem. As you are already in the late foundation establishment stage, you need to prepare for your core in advance.
你可明白？¤Do you understand?
其次，便是与能增强剑伤威力的功法神通相配合，例如{color=#d0380a}破势{/color}、{color=#d0380a}金虹剑诀{/color}。在习得这些神通之前，也可用{color=#d0380a}金芒术{/color}过度。¤Next, it is to combine with divine skills and techniques that can enhance the power of sword injuries, such as Stance Breaking, Radiant Sword Art, and Golden Rainbow Sword Technique. Before mastering these divine skills, Golden Ray Technique can also be used as a transition.
现在，为师已自创出了一套更高效的毒道功法神通与打法，不过这些就是后话了。¤Now, I have created a more efficient set of poison technique and divine skill, but that's a story for another time.
除此之外，{color=#d0380a}聚尘诀{/color}可聚起你被引力影响所消散的灵气，化为“尘”收集起来，其辅助效果也是绝佳。¤In addition, the {color=#d0380a}Dust Gathering Skill{/color} can gather the spiritual energy that dissipates due to the influence of gravity and turn it into dust to collect. Its auxiliary effect is also excellent.
敌人若想致胜，就必须先击破这护盾，可如此一来，敌人所受到的伤害也就越大，正所谓以守代攻。¤If the enemy wants to win, they must first break through this shield. However, in doing so, the damage they suffer will also be greater, as the saying goes, defense as offense.
那就好…¤That's good...
哈哈哈哈，好！竟然已经领悟到小成了。¤Hahaha, great! You've already achieved a small enlightenment.
还不快去？¤Why haven't you gone yet?
不过你要是心急进攻，没能控制住场面，则会陷入被动。¤But if you are impatient and attack without controlling the situation, you will be in a passive position.
那…便恭敬不如从命了。¤Then...I respectfully defer to your command.
总的来说，灼烧流重积累，不管是战斗上还是修炼上都是如此。¤Overall, the Burn cultivation method heavily relies on accumulation, whether it's in combat or cultivation.
听了你的话，师父的眉头慢慢舒展开来，反倒是笑了起来。¤After listening to your words, the master's brows slowly relaxed and he even started laughing.
本门主修火道，气道、体道、阵道也可辅修。¤As the clan leader, I specialize in the path of fire, but I also have the option to study alongside the paths of qi, body, and array.
她微红着脸颊，将头转向一边，眼睛也不知看向了何方。¤She blushed slightly and turned her head to one side, her eyes staring off into the distance.
师父点了点头。¤The master nodded.
悟道可没这么简单，急不得。回去再好好琢磨琢磨吧。¤Enlightenment is not that easy, don't be too anxious. Go back and ponder on it carefully.
其旨在通过五行相生之法来快速凝聚“尘”，达到积沙成塔的效果。¤The goal here is to quickly condense dust by using the phasing of the five elements, achieving the effect of accumulating sand into a tower.
为师最后点拨你一番，你听好了。¤My final advice to you as your master, listen carefully.
{FirstName}{shidi}，恭喜了。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, congratulations.
师父给了你一记爆栗。¤Master gave you a beating.
若这些功法都修习过了，{color=#d0380a}象甲功{/color}与{color=#d0380a}元戎飞沙诀{/color}也颇有用处，值得参悟一番。¤If you have practiced all of these techniques, the Elephant Armour Skill and the Yuan Rong Flying Sand Skill are also quite useful and worth exploring.
运一个周天。¤Cultivate one revolution of the circulation.
这些你务必要多多感悟，以后都会有用到的时候。¤You must make sure to enlighten yourself on these things, as you will need to use them in the future.
功法神通，也稍欠火候……¤Techniques and divine skills, they still lack a bit of refinement...
不过就算你打赢了我也不能自满，这修真界比我厉害的人比比皆是，更有很多强大的妖兽……¤However, even if you beat me, you can't be complacent. There are countless people in the cultivation world who are more powerful than me, and there are many powerful spirit beasts...
哈哈哈哈，你倒是聪明。¤Hahaha, you are clever.
此外，你需要修习水剑真正的核心神通{color=#d0380a}怒水天殇{/color}与{color=#d0380a}静水无波{/color}。它们搭配乾坤化剑诀，可谓是妙用无穷。¤Additionally, you need to cultivate the true core divine skills of water sword, the {color=#d0380a}Raging Wave Sword{/color} and {color=#d0380a}Tranquil Water{/color}. When paired with the Qiankun Sword Transformation Skill, their potential is limitless.
水道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤The waterways are further divided into multiple schools of thought. You can choose any one of them to enlighten your understanding of the Dao.
“原来如此，想不到师尊的心思竟这么细腻…”¤So that's how it is, I never expected my master's thoughts could be so refined...
等到你觉得时机成熟，便可使用{color=#d0380a}聚焰{/color}配合{color=#d0380a}焰灵招徕{/color}一举拿下对手。¤When you feel the time is right, you can use the {color=#d0380a}gathering flame{/color} in combination with the {color=#d0380a}flame spirit invocation{/color} to defeat your opponent in one fell swoop.
需要注意的是，若你火道已感悟到小成，{color=#d0380a}浴火{/color}一定要好好参悟，莫要荒废。¤Please note that if you have already achieved some understanding in the fire element, it is crucial to thoroughly {color=#d0380a}bath in fire{/color} and not neglect it.
那妖王就在{$kaoyandidian}，你是我最为器重的弟子，可别给我搞砸了。¤The demon king is located at {$kaoyandidian}, you are my most trusted disciple, don't mess this up.
再者，剑宗讲究一鼓作气，灵气的爆发也是相当重要，故而{color=#d0380a}纵地金光{/color}与{color=#d0380a}刺穴{/color}也是不二之选。¤Furthermore, the Sword Sect emphasizes the importance of a continuous burst of spiritual energy, which is why the use of {color=#d0380a}metallic radiance{/color} and {color=#d0380a}acupuncture{/color} is highly recommended.
纯粹的攻防也需要纯粹的灵根作为支撑。若你灵根不纯，则需要修炼{color=#d0380a}天晶诀{/color}，否则也是寸步难行。¤Pure offense and defense also requires pure spiritual root as support. If your spiritual root is impure, you need to cultivate the {color=#d0380a}heavenly crystal art{/color}, otherwise it will be difficult to make any progress.
{color=#d0380a}红莲业焱{/color}是本派最基础的灼烧神通，一定要熟练掌握。¤{color=#d0380a}Red Lotus Karma Amazing{/color} is the most fundamental {divine skill} of our sect, which involves burning {red lotus} fire. It is essential to master this skill proficiently.
原来如此…竟还有这一层考量在内…¤So that's how it is... There's even this level of consideration involved...
有何疑问？¤Do you have any questions?
罢了罢了，若实在不敌，就服下这玄武丹，这样应该就万无一失了。¤Never mind, if I really can't win, I'll just take the Black Tortoise Pill. That way, there shouldn't be any problems.
说来听听。¤Let's hear it.
理解还是不够。¤I still don't understand.
水、气道又细分为若干流派。你任选其中一门，皆可助你感悟大道。¤Water and Qi Dao are further subdivided into various schools. You can choose any of them to help you enlighten the Dao.
心性可嘉。¤Noble Character.
等你对{$dadao}道的感悟略有小成之后，才算是打牢了根基，届时为师再教你本门的核心功法。¤Once you have slightly accomplished your understanding of {$dadao}, that's when you'll have laid the foundation. From there, I will teach you the core technique of our sect.
看来我已经没有什么东西可以教你了。¤It seems that I have nothing left to teach you.
你木灵根越精纯，其效果便越好。¤The purer your spiritual root, the better the effect will be.
要，要！师父的一片好意我怎么会不领情呢？之前那不是客套一下嘛…¤Yes, yes! How could I not appreciate Master's kind intentions? That was just a polite gesture before...
见过师父。¤Master, I have seen you.
接下来，为师就可以教你点真家伙了。¤Next, I can teach you some real skills.
一般剑系神通可体现不出振剑的真正威力，但若是配合{color=#d0380a}破釜沉舟{/color}，就会变得进退自如。¤Generally, sword-based divine skills cannot fully showcase the true power of resonating sword, but if combined with {color=#d0380a}the last stand{/color}, it can become a versatile technique.
{color=#d0380a}回春诀{/color}能弥补毒道防御不足的缺点，也是上佳之选。¤{color=#d0380a}Rejuvenation{/color} technique is a perfect choice to compensate for the lack of defense against poison, making it an excellent option.
这…不太合适吧？¤This...isn't quite appropriate, is it?
你忘记当初是什么要紧的事情耽搁了，只记得后来并未与师父经常联络。¤You forgot what was important at first and got delayed, only remembering later that you did not keep in touch with your master often.
你二人说是论道，但自己却无太多理解。师父指出了你的不足后，简单提点了几句。¤You two claim to be debating, but you actually don't understand much about it. After pointing out your shortcomings, the master gave a few easy pointers.
我都等你好久了，让我看看你现在究竟有多厉害~¤I've been waiting for you for a long time, let me see how powerful you are now~
徒儿错了，这就去…¤Disciple was wrong, I'll go now...
有话快说。¤Speak up.
当你受伤时，{color=#d0380a}回春诀{/color}可以令你的木系灵气快速恢复你的伤势。¤When you are injured, {color=#d0380a}Rejuvenation Technique{/color} can help quickly recover your injuries with the help of your wood-type spiritual energy.
{color=#d0380a}神玄炼体诀{/color}与熔盾诀一样注重防守，可以在你积累起化焰之前抵御敌人的攻击。¤{color=#d0380a}Divine Xuan Body Refining Technique{/color} is like Molten Shield Mantra in its emphasis on defense, allowing you to withstand enemy attacks before you accumulate the Living Flame necessary to strike back with Body Refinement.
若你水道已感悟到小成，{color=#d0380a}强水{/color}可大大加强水道威力。¤If you have attained a basic level of enlightenment in water manipulation, using {color=#d0380a}strong water{/color} can greatly enhance the power of your water manipulation.
果然是第三层，没有一丝偏差，不错，不错。¤It really is the third level, without the slightest deviation. Not bad, not bad.
总而言之，冰系重内力，重积累。若想展现冰系的真正威力，至少也要你突破金丹期，领悟{color=#d0380a}裂冰诀{/color}才行。¤In summary, ice cultivation emphasizes inner strength and accumulation. If you want to unleash the true power of ice cultivation, you need to at least breakthrough to the golden core realm and comprehend the Ice Cracking Skill.
不过还是先听听此事的来龙去脉罢。¤But let's first listen to the ins and outs of this matter.
只要先用霜冻灵气阻塞住敌人的经脉，敌人的行动就会迟缓下来。¤As long as you first use frostbite spiritual energy to block the enemy's meridians, their movements will slow down.
{FirstName}{shidi}，有事吗？¤{FirstName} junior apprentice, do you need anything?
师父蹬了你一眼。¤Master gave you a disdainful look.
你听懂了师尊的意思，略微不情愿地将那妖丹交给了师父。¤You understood the meaning of Master's words and reluctantly handed over the demon core to your father.
呵呵呵呵，就知道徒儿孝顺。¤Hehehe, knew my disciple would be filial.
化尘之功法神通搭配，以快速积攒“尘”为主。¤The technique of dust refinement paired with divine skills, focuses on rapidly accumulating dust.
行完礼后，他便同其他长老寒暄去了。很快，又有新的长老过来祝贺你，待到一一寒暄过后，方才离开。¤After paying his respects, he exchanged pleasantries with the other elders and soon, more elders came to offer their congratulations. Once they had exchanged greetings one by one, they left.
你若想更加精进，便外出游历，去寻觅机缘……¤If you desire to further improve, then go out and travel, seek out opportunities…
修炼要沉心静气，循序渐进。¤Cultivation requires calmness and steady progress.
但九冲图集终究是一本面面俱到的功法，若想在单方面有所建树，还需配合其他功法神通。¤However, the Nine Rush Atlas Arts is ultimately a comprehensive technique. If one wishes to excel in a particular area, they still need to complement it with other techniques and divine skills.
感悟的如何？¤How enlightening is it?
且听我说完此事的来龙去脉罢。¤Listen to me finish the story from beginning to end.
你才刚突破，便能战胜为师，日后成就定然不可限量。想必，这小小{$zongmen}也定然困不住你的志向。¤You have just made a breakthrough and were able to defeat me. Your future achievements are limitless. I am certain that even this small {$zongmen} will not be able to contain your aspirations.
若你急于求成，被敌人打断了蓄势，其后果轻则威力大减，重则前功尽弃。¤If you are impatient to succeed and your gathering momentum is interrupted by the enemy, the consequences can range from a significant decrease in power to abandoning all previous progress.
师父听完了你的感悟后点了点头。¤After listening to your enlightenment, Master nodded.
师父摇了摇头。¤Master shook his head.
哈哈哈哈，不愧是我徒儿，果当懂得礼数，也不枉为师将这个好机会给你。¤Hahaha, worthy of being my disciple, you truly understand etiquette. It's not in vain that I'm giving you this great opportunity as your master.
再说了，在你筑基的这段时间，我也没能帮上什么大忙，“师父”这名号实在是受之有愧。¤Furthermore, during the time when you were building your foundation, I wasn't able to help much. I am unworthy of the title master.
只见师父微皱的眉头稍微松开了一些。¤I saw the slightly relaxed brow of the master.
总的来说，百花流并没有过强或者过弱的方面，一切只是个人的取舍罢了。¤Overall, the Hundred Flowers School does not have any particularly strong or weak aspects. It's all a matter of personal preference.
如此一来，你便可以出师了。¤So, you can now leave as a master.
哈哈哈哈，看来你还是稍欠火候啊。¤Hahaha, it seems like you're still a bit lacking in experience.
师父的笑突然僵住了。¤Master's smile suddenly froze.
若做好自身防御，便可轻易利于不败之地。¤If one can maintain good personal defense, they can easily benefit from the unbeatable land.
缠绕流功法神通之搭配，皆以困敌、反哺为主。¤The combination of tangled flow technique and divine skill emphasizes the trapping and counter-feeding of enemies.
化尘诀、化沙、还尘这些最基本的，想必你在炼气期已经熟练掌握，我就不多赘述了。¤The Dust Transformation Mantra, Transform Sand, and Return Dust are the most basic techniques, which I presume you are already proficient in during the Qi Refining stage. I will not elaborate further.
要知道，你要是丹成不超过五品，就算结成了金丹，也几乎与结婴无缘了……¤You must know that if your dancheng level is below the fifth rank, even if you successfully form a golden core, it will be almost impossible for you to form a nascent soul...
木道乃是百花齐放，生生不息。¤The path is adorned with hundred flowers, endlessly restless.
你莫不是成心戏耍为师？¤Are you intentionally trying to play a trick on me, Master?
当然，它的副作用也是不小。若是运用不当，则会伤己甚于伤敌，得不偿失。至于如何规避副作用，便是后话了。¤Of course, its side effects are not insignificant. If used improperly, it can harm oneself more than the enemy, causing a net loss. As for how to avoid side effects, that is a topic for later discussion.
好！若你以后还有什么疑问，尽管来问我罢。¤Good! If you have any questions in the future, feel free to ask me.
拿去修至第三层，再来找我。¤Take it and cultivate up to the third level, then come find me.
怎么，你不会是怕了吧？¤What, are you afraid now?
修真界以实力为尊，实力到了自然要以平辈相称。若你念得师徒旧情，多送我一些法宝丹药便可。¤In the world of cultivation, strength reigns supreme and peers must be of equal strength. If you cherish our old master-disciple relationship, then please gift me some artifacts and pills.
若想结出高品阶的金丹，你还需要寻觅一些突破用的丹药、秘术才行……¤If you want to cultivate high-level golden cores, you also need to find some breakthrough pills and secret arts...
嗯……其实这也不全是任务的报酬，也算是我对你今后结丹的一份支持吧。¤Hmm... Actually, this isn't entirely a quest reward. It's also my way of supporting you in your future core formation.
{color=#d0380a}少阳诀{/color}能很好的补充自身灵气，若你有好好修习气道，一定要修炼此功法。¤If you are diligently cultivating your qi dao, it is essential that you practice the shao yang skill to enhance your spiritual energy. Remember to maintain your focus and dedication to the techniques. {color=#d0380a}少阳诀{/color} is a powerful cultivation technique that should not be neglected.
看来，你还是稍欠火候啊。¤It seems that you still need more practice.
此外，{color=#d0380a}赤炎灵阵{/color}可稳定提供灼烧灵气，若你对阵道有一定感悟，也可以修习此阵法。¤In addition, the {color=#d0380a}Red Hot Spirit Array{/color} can stably provide burning spiritual energy. If you have some enlightenment on the Array Dao, you can also cultivate this array.
若你缺少木系灵气，{color=#d0380a}寄杖诀{/color}可助你迅速获得木系灵气。¤If you lack Wood-based spiritual energy, the {color=#d0380a}Staff Control{/color} technique can help you quickly gain Wood-based spiritual energy.
若略有小成，则务必感悟{color=#d0380a}寄生{/color}。¤If slightly accomplished, one must enlighten the {color=#d0380a}parasite.{/color}
本门主修土道，乃是最正统的尘沙转换之道。¤本门主修土道，乃是最正统的尘沙转换之道。
这个不难领悟。¤This is not difficult to enlighten.
{shidi}谬赞了，如今你已经到了金丹期，哪还有师父这一说，今后你我平辈相称即可。¤{shidi} praised me too highly. Now that you have reached the golden core stage, there's no need to use the term 'Master' anymore. We can refer to each other as equals from now on.
其次便是要理解不破不立的道理。流光真诀便是先破后立，要伤人，先伤己，所以其威力才能如此之强，以至于在众多功法中脱颖而出，流传至今。¤Next, one must understand the principle of no destruction, no creation. The Flowing Light technique is based on breaking down before building up, and to harm others, one must first harm oneself. That is why its power is so strong, and why it stands out among many other techniques, continuing to be passed down to this day.
师父…¤Master...
感悟的怎么样？¤How is your enlightenment?
进展如何？¤How's the progress?
{color=#d0380a}乱藤术{/color}则能在困敌后反哺自身。¤{color=#d0380a}Frenzy Vines{/color} can entangle enemies and provide nourishment for oneself afterwards.
既然如此，徒儿自可一试，只是…师尊为何不自行出手，还可省去一颗珍贵的丹药…¤In that case, disciple can try it out, but... why doesn't Master take action himself and save a valuable pill?
我再说一遍吧，你且听好…¤I'll say it again, listen carefully...
若你对五行相生之道理解深刻，就可以进修{color=#d0380a}青鸾转生诀{/color}。此功法进可攻退可守，可谓妙用无穷。¤If you have a deep understanding of the Five Elements Phasing Technique, you can study the {color=#d0380a}Green Phoenix Reincarnation{/color} technique. This technique can be used for both offense and defense, and is truly versatile.
听明白了。¤Understood clearly.
用来形成五行相生的火系手印或功法，想必你在练气期已经熟练掌握，我就不多赘述了。¤The hand seals or techniques that form the phase of the five elements, I believe you have already mastered proficiently during your Qi cultivation period, so I won't go into too much detail.
那便去吧。¤Then let's go.
旁白其中大半你都鲜有印象，不知见过与否。偶有其他势力、宗门闻讯前来拜贺的长老，你也都是笑脸相迎。¤Most of the narration is unfamiliar to you, not sure if you've seen it before. Occasionally, elders from other factions and clans come to offer congratulations, and you greet them with a smile.
不敢当，想必师父也没有发挥全力吧？¤I dare not, I'm afraid even master didn't exert their full strength, right?
再就是与流光真诀一同流传至今的神通{color=#d0380a}寸芒{/color}。它比之金芒术威力更大，但副作用也更大。¤And then there is also the divine skill {color=#d0380a}rapid pierce{/color}, which has been passed down along with the flowing light true technique to this day. Its power is greater than that of the golden ray technique, but its side effects are also greater.
师父怔了一下，就好像没料到你会答应的这么快一样。¤The master was stunned for a moment, as if he hadn't expected you to agree so quickly.
没事就好…¤It's good as long as nothing happens...
剑道讲究一往无前，攻敌必救。金道讲究不破不立，出奇制胜。两者相得益彰。¤The way of the sword is all about advancing forward and rescuing the enemy when attacking. The way of gold is about not breaking anything that is not necessary and achieving victory through surprise tactics. These two complement each other.
{color=#d0380a}落岩术{/color}的威力能随着引力的提升而提升，乃引力流核心神通。¤The power of {color=#d0380a}rockfall{/color} technique can be enhanced with the increase of {color=#d0380a}gravity{/color}, which is one of the core {color=#d0380a}divine skills{/color} of the gravity flow.
掌握这两个核心神通之后，你就可以学习{color=#d0380a}泰然无波{/color}，此招可以说是敌退我进、转守为攻的关键。¤After mastering these two core divine skills, you can learn the {color=#d0380a}Calm in Chaos{/color}, which can be said to be the key to turning defense into offense and attacking when the enemy retreats.
奔雷决乃是蓄势流最为核心的功法。不动则已，动如奔雷，谓之奔雷决。¤The Benlei Technique is the most fundamental technique of the Gather Momentum school. Still as a rock, swift as lightning this is what is known as the Benlei Technique.
原来{$daoyou}刚才也在港口，莫非看到我与那几个海外修士争吵了。¤I realized that {$daoyou} was also at the port earlier. Did you happen to see me arguing with those overseas cultivators?
是呀，我要炼制的是上品法宝，得全部采用四品材料。虽说用品级更低的材料替代也能成器，但最终成器的灵力就会不足，便只能炼出中品法宝了。¤Yes, I am refining a top-grade artifact, which requires the use of fourth grade materials entirely. Although substituting with lower grade materials is possible, the final artifact's spiritual power will be insufficient, resulting in only a middle-grade artifact being refined.
水属性材料基本对应着与水有关的效果，比如用上了天阳、水属性材料打造的环会拥有【{color=#d0380a}驭水{/color}】的效果，对于我们使用水系神通的星河剑派弟子正合适。¤Water attribute materials usually correspond to effects related to water. For example, a ring crafted using Heavenly Yang and water attribute materials will have the effect of {color=#d0380a}water control{/color}, which is perfect for disciples of the Celestial River Sword Sect who use water-based divine skills.
我这些日子就要赶回神兵阁炼制武器去，{$daoyou}赠与我的材料我一定好好使用。¤I have to hurry back to the Divine Warrior Pavilion to refine weapons these days, and I will definitely make good use of the materials {$daoyou} gave me.
虽然如同{$daoyouPlayer}所说，如此定价也着实有些不合适...¤Although, as {$daoyouPlayer} said, this pricing seems quite inappropriate...
好不容易收集齐其它材料，总不能半途而废吧。¤After finally gathering all the other materials, we can't just give up halfway.
虽说我准备炼制的环都用上了四品材料，但要让灵力完全发挥出来，还要平衡五维。¤Although I have used fourth grade materials for the rings I am preparing, in order to fully exert my spiritual power, I also need to balance the five dimensions.
啊，抱歉自顾自说了这么多，{daoyou}来找我是为了何事？¤Ah, sorry for rambling on like that. What brings you here, {fellow cultivator}?
{$daoyou}可是弄到了材料？¤Did {$daoyou} manage to obtain the materials?
{$daoyouPlayer}与我有缘，今日这蓬莎巨蟹螯我就按平价的一半卖给你吧。¤{$daoyouPlayer}, we are fated to meet. Today, I will sell you this Pongsha Crab Claw at half the market price.
啊...好的。今日多谢{$daoyou}相助，这些灵石{$daoyou}且收好。¤Ah... Alright. Thank you {$daoyou} for your help today. Please take these spirit stones and keep them safe.
听{$daoyouPlayer}解释这些我也收获颇多。¤Listening to {$daoyouPlayer}'s explanation, I also gained a lot.
没错，材料我已经弄来了，{$daoyouPlayer}看看是否为你所要的。¤Yes, I have acquired the materials. Please take a look, {$daoyouPlayer}, and see if they are what you were looking for.
她开始滔滔不绝地讲着自己对宁州商品定价、灵石流通等的见解，时不时冒出些没听说过的名词，让你听的脑袋嗡嗡的。¤She began to speak non-stop about her insights on the pricing of merchandise in Ningzhou, the circulation of spirit stones, and other topics, occasionally using unfamiliar terms that left your head buzzing.
方才{$daoyouPlayer}在港口似乎是为了购买某种材料？¤Just now, was {$daoyouPlayer} at the port to purchase certain materials?
我就把这蓬莎巨蟹螯平价卖给你吧。¤I'll sell you this Pongsha Crab Claw at a reasonable price.
好好好，那我就在客栈等候{$daoyou}的好消息了。¤Alright, I'll wait for good news from {$daoyou} at the inn.
我有个不情之请...请问{$daoyou}是否愿意替我去找那几位蓬莎岛修士问问，能不能换到蓬莎巨蟹螯？{$daoyou}要是能把材料弄来，我便花灵石向你购买！¤I have a request that may not sit well with you...  {$daoyou}, would you be willing to go and ask the Pongsha Island cultivators if they have any Pongsha Crab claws to spare? If you can obtain the materials, I will purchase them from you for spirit stones!
既然{daoyou}这么问了，我也实话实说吧，我...我其实...有点怕水。¤Since my {daoyou} asked, I'll tell the truth. I... actually have a bit of aquaphobia.
我们金虹与星河向来交好，{$daoyouPlayer}就不必客气了。¤Our Golden Rainbow and Celestial River have always been close friends, so {$daoyouPlayer} doesn't have to be polite.
这怎么好意思，{$daoyou}这样岂不是亏本了，我还是付正常价格的灵石吧¤How can this be right? {$daoyou} would be at a loss if we do it this way. I will pay the normal price for the spirit stones.
原来是{FirstName}{$daoyou}，真巧啊，在这广陵城碰上。¤Turns out it's {FirstName}{$daoyou}, what a coincidence, running into each other in Guangling City.
{$daoyou}好不容易帮我取得这材料，我必定不能白白拿了去，不如我也以物换物吧。这是我先前打造的法器，道友不嫌弃的话就拿着这个吧。¤Fellow Daoist, you've helped me acquire these materials at great effort, so I cannot just take them without giving something in return. How about I exchange them with this magic tool I previously crafted? If you don't mind, please take it. 
{$daoyouPlayer}好，刚才见到你从港口匆匆离开，不知是去哪儿了，原来是往客栈去了。¤Hello, {$daoyouPlayer}. I saw you leaving the port in a hurry earlier and was wondering where you were going. Turns out you were heading to the inn.
其实刚才{$daoyouPlayer}离开港口后，我和那几个蓬莎岛修士也交谈了一番。¤Actually, after {$daoyouPlayer} left the port, I had a chat with some Pongsha Island cultivators.
哼！这里买不到材料，大不了我再花些时日自己去找，可不会让你们赚到我的灵石！¤Hmph! I can't buy any materials here. It's alright, I'll just spend some time finding them myself. I'm not going to fall that easily and let you profit from my spirit stones!
通常来说，用妖兽身上的牙和骨炼器能提升其操控性，而皮和鳞则提升亲和度，脏器这些灵物类，顾名思义则能提升灵性。¤Generally speaking, using the teeth and bones of spirit beasts to refine a tool can enhance its maneuverability, while using their skin and scales can enhance affinity. As for spiritual objects such as organs, as the name suggests, they can enhance spirituality.
这位{$daoyou}何事？¤What's the matter, {$daoyou}?
蟹螯属于牙、骨类材料，我就指着它来提升武器的操控性了。¤Crab pincers belong to the category of teeth and bone materials. I rely on them to enhance the maneuverability of the weapons.
确实是蓬莎巨蟹螯！那{$daoyou}...我要付多少灵石呢？¤It is indeed the claw of the Pongsha Crab! So, {$daoyou}... how much spirit stones do I need to pay?
这个螯，有何特殊之处，{$daoyouPlayer}非要不可呢？¤What is so special about this claw that {$daoyouPlayer} must have it?
好呀好呀！这次真是多亏了{$daoyou}帮忙，这些灵石你且收好。¤Great! I must thank my {$daoyou} for helping me out this time. Keep these spirit stones safe.
怕水...可你却还是星河剑派的，星河剑派不是以水系功法见长吗。¤Afraid of water... But you are still a member of Celestial River Sword Sect. Isn't Celestial River Sword Sect famous for its water-based techniques?
确实如此，{$daoyouPlayer}可是因为材料价格争吵？¤Indeed, is it true that {$daoyouPlayer} got into a dispute over materials prices?
她顿了一下，将头一侧，双眼看向了地面，你感到气氛凝重决定不再追问。¤She paused for a moment, tilted her head to the side, looked down with both eyes, and you felt the atmosphere become heavy, deciding not to ask any more.
{$daoyouPlayer}莫要着急，我还需要些时日。¤Don't worry, {$daoyouPlayer}, I still need some time.
想不到{$daoyou}对炼器十分有研究，今日收益良多。¤I didn't expect {$daoyou} to be so knowledgeable about refining. I gained a lot today.
这类材料在宁州都很稀有，听说无尽之海上的蓬莎巨蟹，其蟹螯正是我所需的材料，而且还算好获得些。¤These materials are quite rare in Ningzhou. I heard that the Pongsha crabs in the endless sea have the exact material I need in their pincers, and it's relatively easy to gain them.
{$daoyou}如此坚持，我也不好再推脱。今日十分感谢{$daoyou}相助，{$daoyou}收好这些灵石。¤If you insist, {$daoyou}, I can't refuse any longer. I am truly grateful for your help today, please accept these spirit stones as a token of my appreciation.
谁叫你如此贪心。¤Who told you to be so greedy.
唉，收集四品材料本就不易，况且只收集一两种还不行，得凑齐多种类型的材料，{$daoyou}也要提前规划才行。¤Alas, collecting fourth grade materials is already difficult enough, and collecting just one or two types is not enough. You need to gather various types of materials, so {$daoyou} also needs to plan ahead.
这怎么担受得起！我还是按照平价付灵石吧。¤How can I bear this! I'll just pay with spirit stones according to the market price.
不好！被发现了！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Oh no! I've been found! {vpunch=10,0.5}
哼，看来你在宁王府过这几日竟是把脑子也懒散净了，居然带着尾巴来见我。¤Hmph, it seems you have become lazy even in your mind after staying at the Ning King's Manor for these few days, to the point of bringing your tail to see me.
逸风城外¤Outside of Yifeng City
什么？！望长老宽恕！¤What?! Please forgive this elder!
已经这么晚了，怎么还不见长老...难道出了什么意外？¤It's already late. Why haven't the elders shown up yet... Could something unexpected have happened?
御剑门？{$TmpTalkString}说的若是九嶷山上那座被阵法封印的遗迹，我倒是知晓一二。¤The Imperial Sword Sect? If {$TmpTalkString} is referring to the sealed ruins on Jiuyi Mountain that are protected by an array, then I do know a thing or two about it.
没错，那御剑门掌门私通魔门，也不知做了什么，竟能散布如此之多的魔气。¤Yes, the master of the Imperial Sword Sect colluded with the demonic sect and did something unknown, which resulted in the spread of a large amount of magic qi.
御剑门...你说的是那个擅使游身剑法的门派吧？¤Imperial Sword Sect... You mean the sect that excels in the use of the body-movement sword technique, right?
不过我们竹山宗对于私通魔门之人一向不留情面。既然那御剑门掌门步入魔道，只能说是他自取灭亡，怪不得旁人。¤However, our Bamboo Mountain Sect has always shown no mercy to those who collude with the demonic sect. Since the Master of the Imperial Sword Sect has chosen to walk the path of demon, it can only be said that he brought this upon himself and no one else should be blamed.
若是放任不管，待魔气自然消散，对我等修真者自然不会有太大影响，但九嶷山一带的凡人却难免因此遭罪。¤If left alone, the magic qi will naturally dissipate and not have too much impact on us cultivators. However, the common people in the area of Jiuyi Mountain will inevitably suffer because of it.
这御剑门数百年前倒也算有些实力，不过如今已经很少有人提起这段过往了。¤The Imperial Sword Sect was somewhat powerful several hundred years ago, but now few people mention this past.
私通魔门？¤Colluding with the Demon Sect?
可惜，可惜啊...¤Unfortunately, what a pity...
哼...陈年往事，何必再提，这千年来宁州覆灭的宗门又何止那御剑门一个。¤Hmph... There's no need to bring up old history. Not only the Imperial Sword Sect, but many other clans have also been destroyed in Ningzhou over the past millennium.
没错，据说当年是一名{color=#d0380a}离火门弟子{/color}最先发现此事，双方争斗了一场还死伤了不少弟子。¤Yes, it is said that it was a Fire Gate Disciple who first discovered this matter, and the two sides fought a battle that resulted in the death and injury of many disciples.
御剑门...此派已经覆灭数百年了，我也只是听说过一些传闻。¤The Imperial Sword Sect... this sect has been destroyed for hundreds of years, and I have only heard rumors about it.
如此一来，只需再设一普通封印法阵将仙剑锁住，外围再配合五派一同布下迷踪法阵，便可确保御剑门之危解除。¤In this way, it only needs to set up a regular seal array to lock the immortal sword, and cooperate with the five sects to lay down the concealment array, which can ensure the danger of the Imperial Sword Sect is resolved.
这御剑门所处的九嶷山与我派相邻，因此与我派也是偶有交际。因此消息传来后，我派很快就曾派遣长老前往九嶷山调查，果真发现了魔门出没的踪迹。¤The Imperial Sword Sect is adjacent to Jiuyi Mountain where they occasionally interact with our sect. Upon hearing news of this, our sect quickly dispatched an elder to investigate at Jiuyi Mountain. It was indeed discovered that the Devil's Sect had been appearing there.
是大长老...还是杨管家...？¤Is it the grand elder...or the steward Yang...?
御剑门？哼，此派覆灭数百年了，{$TmpTalkString}怎么想起打听它了？¤Imperial Sword Sect? Hmph, this sect has been extinct for hundreds of years, {$TmpTalkString} why are you suddenly interested in asking about it?
不过散人我无拘无束惯了，从来不去掺和这些与我无关的事情。你要是想知道些什么，就亲自去问问那些个宗门的长老吧。¤However, as a free-spirited individual, I am used to being unconstrained and rarely involve myself in matters unrelated to me. If you want to know something, you should go and ask a member of the clan's elders personally.
噢？你说的是几百年前被那五大门派围攻的御剑门吧，当年此事确实是轰动一时啊。¤Oh? Are you talking about the Imperial Sword Sect that was besieged by the five major sects hundreds of years ago? That incident did cause quite a sensation at the time.
此布阵之法即便如今看来也是颇为巧妙，因此被记录在我族古籍之中。不知我说的这些，对{$TmpTalkString}可有帮助？¤Even now, this formation method appears quite clever, and as such is recorded in the ancient books of our clan. I wonder if what I've said will be helpful to {$TmpTalkString}?
那些御剑门弟子见事迹败露，竟直接对那些前去调查的离火门弟子动了杀心。双方在九嶷山大打出手，我派死伤惨重，连当时的首席弟子也命陨于此。¤When the deeds of the disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect were exposed, they directly turned their murderous intentions towards the Fire Gate disciples who were investigating. The two sides engaged in a fierce battle on Mount Jiuyi, with our sect suffering heavy casualties and even our then-chief disciple perishing in the battle.
谁曾想正好遇上那御剑门掌门魔化以后实力大增，与其它各门长老战作一团。若非我派长老出手相助，恐怕还真拿不下他。¤Who would have thought that we would encounter the leader of the Imperial Sword Sect, who had become enchanted and had greatly increased his strength, battling with other elders from various sects. If it wasn't for our own sect's elders lending a helping hand, we wouldn't have been able to defeat him.
据说当年御剑门掌门私通魔门，因而被五大派的高手围攻，宗门也付之一炬。¤It is said that the former master of the Imperial Sword Sect colluded with the demonic sect, leading to them being besieged by the experts of the Five Great Sects and their clan being burnt to ashes.
他用剑如神，又与掌门师兄私交匪浅，本是老夫十分敬仰的一位前辈。也不知他是受了什么蛊惑，竟敢私通魔门，最后连累整个宗门与他陪葬。¤He wielded his sword with divine skill, and had a close relationship with the senior brother of the master. He was a senior member of the clan whom this old man greatly admired. I don't know what kind of temptation he fell under, but he dared to collude with the devil sect, ultimately bringing the entire clan down with him.
是时，我派长老便想出了将一柄纯阳仙剑作为阵眼，同时也是容器，布阵于御剑门之中。在阵法的引导下，门内的魔气会不断被引入仙剑之中。¤At that time, our elder came up with the idea of using a Pure Yang Immortal Sword as the formation eye and container, and set it up in the Imperial Sword Sect. Guided by the array formation, the magic qi within the sect would constantly be drawn into the Immortal Sword.
这御剑门掌门当年私通魔门，我派也有不少弟子死在他们手上。后来还是我们五派的元婴高手一同出手，才把这魔门给灭了。¤The imperial sword sect master had colluded with the demonic cult back then, and many of our disciples fell at their hands. It was only with the help of nascent soul experts from our five sects that we were able to eradicate that cult.
此派覆灭后，宗门遗迹也被五派共同布阵封印，此后数百年间便再也没有人提起它了。¤After the destruction of this sect, the remains of the clan were sealed by a joint formation of the five sects, and for hundreds of years, no one ever mentioned it again.
那御剑门掌门当年可是被称为同阶无敌手的宁州第一人，就连那金虹剑派的掌门也略逊他一筹。¤The master of the Imperial Sword Sect was once known as the unbeatable fighter of the same rank in Ningzhou, even surpassing the master of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
我派掌门原本与那御剑门掌门交好，一开始也不愿相信此事。可事发之时，那御剑门掌门已魔化，证据确凿也由不得我们不信呐。¤My sect's master originally had a good relationship with the master of the Imperial Sword Sect, and at first, did not want to believe this matter. However, when the incident happened, the master of the Imperial Sword Sect had already been enchanted. The evidence was clear, and we had no choice but to believe it.
御剑门？此事我倒是知晓一二。¤Imperial Sword Sect? I do have some knowledge about it.
你若真想调查些什么，就去问问五大门派的那些个长老们吧，看看他们又会编出些什么理由来为自己辩解。¤If you really want to investigate something, go ask the elders of the five sects and see what excuses they come up with to defend themselves.
当年这御剑门掌门也不知受了什么蛊惑，竟敢私通魔门，还惹出了不少事端，这才遭得我们宁州五派合力围攻。¤Years ago, the master of the Imperial Sword Sect was unexplainably swayed and dared to collude with the demon sect, causing quite a stir and leading to our combined attack by the five sects of Ningzhou.
{$TmpTalkString}怎么想起打听这个了？¤Why did you suddenly become interested in asking about this?
那些御剑门弟子拒不承认也就罢了，竟然还用卑劣的手段暗算我们。若非大师兄舍命相助，恐怕我们是难以逃回离火门的。¤Those disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect refused to recognize us, but they even resorted to despicable means to ambush us. If it weren't for Senior Brother sacrificing himself to help us, we would have had difficulty escaping back to the Fire Gate Sect.
害，记不太清了，{$TmpTalkString}问这个做什么？¤Oops, I can't quite remember. Why do you ask about {$TmpTalkString}?
当年传言这御剑门掌门私通魔门，咱们宁州五派自然不可坐视不管，便一同出手将此宗门灭了。¤Back then, there were rumors that the master of the Imperial Sword Sect colluded with the demonic sect. Our five sects in Ningzhou naturally couldn't sit idly by, so we joined forces and wiped out this clan.
御剑门？我记得学《青莲剑诀》的时候好像听谁起过这个门派来着...¤The Imperial Sword Sect? I remember someone mentioning this sect while I was learning the 《Green Lotus Sword Skill》...
我派原先在宁州古迹中就与这御剑门有过冲突，怀疑这御剑门掌门在古迹中得了什么魔物，便派遣长老暗中调查。¤My sect had a prior conflict with the Imperial Sword Sect in the ancient ruins of Ning Province. We suspected that the master of the Imperial Sword Sect had obtained some kind of spirit beast within the ruins, so we sent an elder to investigate covertly.
这御剑门覆灭数百年了，若非{$TmpTalkString}问起，我倒是都快忘了。¤I almost forgot about the imperial sword sect's destruction that happened hundreds of years ago, if not for {$TmpTalkString} asking about it.
不该打听的事少打听，像这等小门小派被灭了也只能怪自己实力不济。¤Shouldn't inquire about things that shouldn't be asked, if a small sect like this is wiped out, they can only blame their own lack of strength.
按我族记载，这御剑门当年被五大派围攻后，虽然落败，但宗门内外四溢的魔气却仍然相当棘手。¤According to our clan's records, although the Imperial Sword Sect was defeated after being besieged by the five major schools, the magic qi within and around the clan still posed a significant threat.
此事或许还有什么不为人知的内幕，但像这样没有底蕴的门派，偶然靠一两个成功突破到元婴期的天才崛起一时，但到底是不能长久的。¤Perhaps there are some unknown secrets regarding this matter, but sects with no solid foundation like this will only rely on occasional rising geniuses who break through to the nascent soul stage. However, this cannot last for long.
此事原本与我派无关，不过受那金虹剑派掌门所邀去为两派化解矛盾。没想到事发之时，那御剑门掌门已魔化，证据确凿也由不得我们不信呐。¤This matter was originally unrelated to our sect, but we were invited by the Radiant Sword Sect Headmaster to resolve the conflict between the two sects. However, when things happened, the Imperial Sword Sect Headmaster had been enchanted, and the evidence was conclusive, leaving us with no choice but to believe it.
哎，当年御剑门被灭门之时，老夫才刚刚突破元婴，而那御剑门掌门早已是宁州赫赫有名的剑修。¤Ah, when the Imperial Sword Sect was annihilated, I had just recently achieved a breakthrough to nascent soul. The sect's master was already a renowned sword cultivator in Ningzhou.
御剑门？此派虽已覆灭数百年了，但当年确实与我派有些瓜葛。¤The Imperial Sword Sect? Although this sect has been extinct for several hundred years, they did have some connections with our sect back then.
不错，当年这御剑门私通魔门之事被我派弟子发现，正是由大师兄和我一起带着几名内门弟子一起去调查的。¤Not bad. Back then, when the Imperial Sword Sect was found to have colluded with the Demon Sect, it was Senior Brother and I who led a group of inner disciples to investigate.
不错，当年这御剑门私通魔门之事被我派弟子发现，而后便是由火云长老与当时的首席内门弟子一同前去调查的。¤Good, when the Imperial Sword Sect's collusion with the demonic sect was discovered by our disciples back then, it was investigated by Elder Flamecloud and the then-chief inner disciple together.
若是某一日元婴陨落，又无后继之人掌舵，这宗门从没落到覆灭往往也不过百年罢了，与如今的结局也不会有什么不同。¤If one day the nascent soul falls and there is no one to take the helm, then the clan will usually fall to ruin within a hundred years without any successors, and there will be no difference from the current ending.
魔气？¤Magic qi?
最近附近有不少散修失踪，我得小心行事啊。¤Recently, there have been many independent cultivators missing in the area, so I need to be careful in my actions.
千年前我师尊也不过是离火门中一个普通的弟子，据说各大门派掌门齐聚一堂商讨要事，那之后便举派攻上九嶷山，我听得他转述只觉其中有不少谜团。¤A thousand years ago, my master was just an ordinary disciple in the Fire Gate Sect. It is said that the sect masters of various sects gathered to discuss important matters, and after that, they launched a full-scale attack on Jiuyi Mountain. As my master recounted the story to me, I couldn't help but feel that there were many mysteries within it.
千年前围剿御剑门之事我也只是从过往的记事玉简中得知一二。其掌门勾结魔修，作恶多端，好在当时各大门派将其围剿，免我宁州百姓苦难。修仙之人当正道心，莫再打听魔门妖道。¤I only learned a bit about the incident of the siege against the Imperial Sword Sect a thousand years ago from a jade slip for note-taking about past events. Their master colluded with demonic cultivators and committed many heinous acts, but thankfully, at that time, the sects joined forces to suppress them, sparing the people of Ningzhou from suffering. Those who cultivate the Dao should uphold righteous principles and avoid inquiring about demonic paths and nefarious ways.
当年我派掌门受其唆使，险些酿成大祸！若不是掌门心生疑窦，恐怕我金虹剑派也落得同御剑门一样的下场！¤Years ago, our sect master was almost swayed by their influence, which could have led to a great disaster! If it weren't for the master's doubts, our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect might have met the same fate as the Imperial Sword Sect!
当年御剑门是被五大门派联手剿灭的，说不定{$zhangmen}知道一些内幕...{w}{w=0.5}¤Back when the Imperial Sword Sect was wiped out by the five major sects, perhaps {$zhangmen} knew some insider information...
当时只道御剑门私通魔门，却也不知通的哪门，又是何人私通......¤At that time, it was only said that the Imperial Sword Sect was colluding with the Demon Sect, but it was unclear which sect they were colluding with and who was behind it...
此事你从何听来？御剑门乃千古罪人，其掌门手持魔剑，更是其心可诛！¤Where did you hear this from? The Imperial Sword Sect is a notorious faction throughout the ages, their master wielding a demon sword and their hearts deserving of condemnation!
传闻二人最初是因一把灵剑发生争执，尔后不欢而散，甚少往来。¤Rumours have it that the two individuals initially had an argument over a spiritual sword, and since then they have been estranged from each other with minimal communication.
御剑门......你打听此事作何？莫非千年前余孽未清，今日再次祸乱宁州？¤Imperial Sword Sect... What are you trying to find out? Could it be that the remnants from a thousand years ago are still causing trouble in Ningzhou today?
我派消息闭塞，当年之事哪怕记事玉简也未曾留下多少有用讯息。¤My sect's communication was blocked, and even a jade slip for note-taking did not record much useful information about what happened back then.
只依稀说了个金虹剑派掌门率各大门派攻上御剑门，讨伐魔门党羽。至于当年具体发生了什么，倒是没人清楚......¤The story goes that the headmaster of the Radiant Sword Sect led various sects in attacking the Imperial Sword Sect to wipe out members of the demonic sect. As for the specifics of what happened back then, no one knows for sure...
千年前之事我也不太清楚，但据师祖说当时金虹剑派掌门似与御剑门掌门私交甚密，不知为何最后竟势同水火，以至后来竟率各大派围攻御剑门。¤I am not very certain about what happened a thousand years ago, but according to my master, the headmaster of the Radiant Sword Sect at that time seemed to have a close relationship with the headmaster of the Imperial Sword Sect. I am not sure why, but they eventually became enemies, leading to the other sects joining forces to attack the Imperial Sword Sect.
道友果真是人中翘楚，令我等钦佩折服。¤Fellow daoist, you truly are the cream of the crop among men, making us admire and approve of you.
擂台上的两位修士修为差距过大，很快便结束了比赛。¤The two cultivators on the arena had a great disparity in their cultivation levels, and the match ended quickly.
擂台上体魄强劲的体修修士凭借霸道的体魄连连退敌，通过他的比赛你掌握了些许体道技巧。¤On the arena, a cultivator with a strong physique displayed his dominance and forced his opponents to retreat repeatedly. Through his match, you gained some knowledge in body dao techniques.
看来道友志不在此，我等也自不强留，凭借道友的修为想必能在无尽之海打出自己的名头来。¤It seems that fellow daoist's ambitions do not lie here. We will not forcefully keep you with us. With fellow daoist's cultivation, I am sure you will make a name for yourself in the endless sea.
身上的灵石好像不太够，还是改日再来吧...¤It seems that I don't have enough spirit stones on me. I'll come back another day.
擂台上擅用暗劲的修士招招毒辣，令对方接应不暇，在这场比试中你隐约触摸到一丝气之道的法门。¤On the arena, the cultivator who skillfully used dark energy had a vicious attack that left the opponent unable to keep up. In this match, you vaguely touched upon the path of qi techniques.
不知道友可有意入我连家麾下，成为千流岛供奉？¤I don't know if fellow daoist would be interested in becoming a guest elder under my Liang family and joining Myriad Rivers Island.
那连家修士收下灵石后递给你一块玉简，上面刻有观众席的座位号。¤The Lian family cultivator handed you a jade slip after receiving the spirit stones, which had the seat number for the spectator seat engraved on it.
哈哈，道友定不会为今日所做的决定后悔，放眼无尽之海，只有我连家的功法最为强劲。¤Haha, fellow daoist will not regret the decision made today. In the endless sea, only my technique from the Lian Family is the most powerful.
成为千流岛供奉，便可修炼圣坛内的秘法，令道友实力更上一层。¤Becoming a guest elder of Myriad Rivers Island allows you to cultivate the secret techniques within the sacred altar, enabling your fellow daoists to ascend to level 1 and increase their strength.
擂台上修习金系功法的修士以锐不可当的攻势迅猛出击，你在这其中体悟到了金的锋锐。¤On the arena, cultivators who practice metal-based techniques launched fierce attacks that were unstoppable, and you felt the sharpness of metal from witnessing this.
擂台上修习木系功法的修士一手毒功出神入化，你通过他的比试领悟到一丝道法。¤On the arena, a cultivator practicing wooden techniques displayed remarkable skill with his poisonous technique. Through his competition, you achieved a slight enlightenment in the way of Dao.
台上修士一人擅用神识功法，另一人则为用毒高手。灵力碰撞间保护擂台的屏障受击荡出阵阵涟漪，妙法纷纭的战斗令你获益匪浅。¤On the arena, one cultivator utilized their soul sense technique while the other was skilled in poison. As their spiritual energies clashed, the shield protecting the arena shook and waves rippled outwards. The diverse and skillful combat techniques provided valuable insights.
你在台下打了个盹儿，再睁眼时擂台已经结束了。¤You dozed off in the stands, and when you opened your eyes, the arena had already ended.
擂台上的两位修士修为平平，也没什么独门功法，你看得甚是无趣。¤The two cultivators on the arena had mediocre cultivation levels and lacked any unique techniques, making it quite dull to watch.
擂台上的剑修招式凌厉，一柄灵剑杀气四溢，你体悟到些许剑的真意。¤On the arena, the sword cultivator's moves were sharp and precise. The spiritual sword exuded a strong killing intent, allowing you to grasp the true meaning of the sword.
此处为千流岛连家开设的盘口，为防止修士在擂台上投机取巧，比赛前须得为自己押注。若是道法高深赢得擂台，这里自然按赌注做赔。¤This is a betting booth set up by the Lian family of Myriad Rivers Island. In order to prevent cultivators from taking advantage of the arena, they must place bets before the competition. If a cultivator wins the match with superior dao techniques, the booth will naturally pay out according to the bet.
你远远地看到擂台上似乎有修士正在斗法。¤From afar, you can see cultivators battling on the arena.
你整理衣冠，飞身上台，开始了这一轮的比试。¤You straighten your clothes and ascend the stage, beginning the next round of competition.
擂台上修习土系功法的修士防御神通精彩绝伦，通过他的比试你领悟到一丝道法。¤On the arena, a cultivator practicing earth-type techniques displayed an exceptional defense using divine skills. Through his competition, you gained a slight enlightenment of the Tao.
你循着编号很快找到了自己的座位并落座，准备观看接下来的比试。¤You quickly found your seat according to the number and sat down, ready to watch the next competition.
要押注多少灵石？¤How many spirit stones do you want to bet?
过了一段时间后，你注意到搭设盘口的连家修士们收起了摊位，想来擂台即将开赛了。¤After a while, you noticed that the Lian family cultivators who set up the betting stations were packing up, indicating that the arena was about to begin.
擂台上擅用神识功法的修士招式诡秘莫测，你沉浸在他精妙的神通中不可自拔。¤On the arena, the cultivator who excels in using soul sense techniques has mysterious and unpredictable moves, leaving you immerse in his exquisite divine skills unable to extricate yourself.
这是你的参赛玉简，请千万拿好切勿丢失。¤This is your competition jade slip, please hold onto it tightly and do not lose it.
擂台上的两位修士修为高深，一时胜负难分，令观看这场比赛的你获益匪浅。¤The two cultivators on the arena have profound cultivation levels, making it hard to determine a winner for the time being. Watching this match will surely benefit you greatly.
道友请先随总管事面见岛主，其后再商议具体事宜。¤Fellow daoist, please first meet with the steward and then discuss the specific matters afterwards with the island master.
道友请缴纳500灵石的观赛费。¤Fellow Daoist, please pay a viewing fee of 500 spirit stones.
擂台上修习水系功法的修士一手惊涛止水令人拍案叫绝，你在她精妙的操控中隐隐得到了一些启发。¤On the arena, a cultivator practicing water-based techniques with the one hand technique elicited waves of admiration with their mastery of the Tidal Wave and Still Water techniques, leaving the audience in awe. As you watched her deft movements, you couldn't help but feel inspired.
擂台上修习火系功法的修士一出手烈焰灼灼，场内的温度都高了几分，不愧是玄火神通！¤On the arena, a cultivator practicing the technique of fire unleashed a fierce flame, raising the temperature in the field. It was truly a mysterious fire divine skill!
你来到千流岛势力搭建的擂台附近，台下已经聚集了许多准备参赛的修士。擂台四周人声鼎沸，许多散修支起了摊贩，甚至还有修士搭设起盘口。¤You arrive near the arena built by the forces of Myriad Rivers Island, where many cultivators who are ready to compete have already gathered below the stage. The area around the arena is bustling with noise, and many wandering cultivators have set up stalls, and even some cultivators have set up bookmakers.
有请{FirstName}{LastName}上台！¤May {FirstName}{LastName} please come on stage!
你有些好奇地凑上前去，发现掌管盘口的修士们清一色地穿着连家道袍。¤You curiously walked up and found that the cultivators in charge of the gambling table were all dressed in the uniform of the Lian family.
道友是参加擂台还是台下观赛？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow daoist, are you participating in the arena or watching from the sidelines?
{w}{w=0.5}不须多时第一组修士飞身上台，擂台上顿时术法纷呈。¤Without delay, the first group of cultivators flew onto the arena, where magic techniques were immediately displayed. {w}
擂台上的修士布下奇阵，你定睛观察，似乎是效果奇特的太阴奇门阵。通过揣摩他的阵法，你也获得了一些领悟。¤The cultivator on the arena set up a peculiar formation, and as you observed closely, it appeared to be the tainted gate formation with unique effects. By studying their array, you also gained some enlightenment.
不过若是逊人一筹输了擂台，这赌注嘛...{w}{w=0.5}¤However, if one is defeated in the arena, the bet... {w}{w=0.5}
你丝毫不在意嘈杂的打斗声，只是静静地闭上眼睛调养生息，为自己的比赛养精蓄锐。¤You pay no attention to the noisy sound of fighting, and simply close your eyes to rest and prepare for your upcoming match, focusing on birthing your strength.
反了！反了！你怎么敢...¤It's reversed! It's reversed! How dare you...
好你个无耻老儿，谁和你这不要脸的忘八端是一家人！¤Good you shameless old man, who tells you that your shameless behavior is the same as a family with that forgetful bastard!
见到你来，林沐心连忙起身，拉着你一起坐到一旁。苗矮长老皱着眉头看了你们一眼，却没有说话。¤Upon seeing you arrive, Lin Muxin quickly stood up and pulled you to sit next to her. Elder Miao, with a frown on his face, glanced at the two of you but remained silent.
冲虚长老，之前的事情是我们林家教导无方，才闹出了这样的丑事，老夫也是难辞其咎，先自罚一杯。¤Elder Chong Xu, the previous incident was due to our inadequate teachings at the Lin Family, which resulted in such an embarrassing event. This old man also bears some responsibility and will self-punish with a cup.
放肆！家族账本岂由得你这小辈擅自翻阅！¤How dare you! The family account book is not for you younger generations to browse through without permission!
冲虚长老说的是，反正大家马上就是一家人了，再说这些未免伤了和气。¤Elder Chong Xu said that since we're all going to be family soon, there's no need to bring up anything that may damage our harmony.
大堂之上，酒宴已经开始，林府的诸位你见过或是没有见过的大小长老都已悉数入席。¤On the main hall, the banquet has already begun. All the elders, big or small, of the Lin house, whether you have met them before or not, have already taken their seats.
哈哈哈哈，既然都快是一家人了，怎么还不见沐雪？我今日来可就是为了见她啊。¤Hahaha, since we're almost like family now, why haven't I seen Mu Xue yet? I came today just to see her.
林沐心一边说着，一边举起手中的玉简，栖云长老见此面色大变，纵身一跃便要出手来夺！¤As Lin Muxin spoke, she lifted the jade slip in her hand. Seeing this, Elder Qiyun's face drastically changed and he leaped forward, preparing to snatch it away!
（低声）看到主席位上坐着的那个满脸大胡子的人了么，他就是星宫的冲虚长老。¤(Whispering) Have you seen the bearded man sitting in the chairman's seat? He is Elder Chongxu from Star Palace.
你身旁的林沐心听到这里气得浑身发抖，怒气冲冲地便站了起来。¤Lin Muxin, who was beside you, heard this and was so angered that she trembled all over. She stood up with a furious expression.
不过是小孩子闹脾气而已，既然现在事情已经过去了，我也不会再来计较这些的。¤But it's just a child throwing a tantrum. Since the matter has passed, I won't dwell on it anymore.
你吓了一跳，赶紧向一旁躲开。¤You were startled, quickly dodging to the side.
沐心，还不快过来给冲虚长老赔不是！¤Mu Xin, why aren't you hurrying over to apologize to Elder Chong Xu!
大长老，我已经掌握了栖云长老私自挪用家族资产，做假账，勾结外人的证据。¤Grand Elder, I have gathered evidence of Elder Qiyun's embezzlement of clan resources, fraudulent accounting, and collusion with outsiders.
不光是你，几位长老也呆若木鸡，看来谁也没见过林沐心如此泼辣的一面。¤Not only you, but also several elders were stunned. It seems that no one has ever seen Lin Muxin's fierce side.
这位道友可听说过武陵城五年举办一次的盛会？¤Fellow Daoist, have you heard of the grand event held once every five years in Wuling City?
道友请便，我忙着修练要先回客房了。¤Fellow Daoist, please excuse me. I have to return to my guest room to continue my cultivation.
每次见到倪家大张旗鼓地四处寻人，就知道一定是这位倪少爷又偷偷溜出家门了。世家大把大把的资源放着不用偏要自己出门修练，真是怪人一个。¤Every time I see the Ni family frantically searching for someone, I know it must be young Master Ni sneaking out of the house again. This prestigious family has plenty of resources and yet the young master insists on leaving to practice on his own really a peculiar person.
唉，要是能在英杰会上夺魁的话就可以把筑基丹送给小师妹了。如此这般，这般如此，嘿嘿......¤*Sighs* If only I could win the young hero's tournament and give the foundation pill to my younger sister. This and that, hehe...
说起这英杰会，主办方倪家在武陵城真可谓家喻户晓。但提起倪家，最盛的传闻却是那神龙见首不见尾的小少爷。¤When it comes to the Young Hero's Tournament, the sponsor, the Ni family, is well-known in Wuling City. However, when it comes to the Ni family, the most prevalent rumor is about their elusive young master who seems to come and go like a phantom.
那小少爷也不知怎的偏生和安逸日子过不去，非要离家出走。这不，已经是第五次了。¤That young master somehow can't stand living an easy life and insists on running away from home. This is already the fifth time.
看来这里便是那头传闻中伤人妖兽的出没之地了...¤Looks like this is where the rumoured spirit beast that harms people is lurking...
{xiongdi}请说，倪某必当知无不言。¤Brother, please speak. I, Ni, will definitely not hide anything.
听说这几日集会结束以后，有许多单独行动的散修，都莫名其妙地失踪了。依我看，这一定是那些沂山的小鬼干的，{xiongdi}你也需多加小心啊¤I heard that after the gathering ended a few days ago, many individual wandering cultivators have mysteriously disappeared. In my opinion, this must be the work of the little devils from Mt. Yi. {xiongdi}, you need to be extra careful.
离火门主修火系功法，是宁州五大门派之一。虽然他们从不拒绝散修拜入宗门，但因为环境太恶劣，也很少有人能够在那里坚持下来。¤The Fire Gate Sect specializes in fire-based techniques and is one of the five major clans in Ningzhou. Although they welcome members who are independent cultivators, the harsh environment makes it difficult for anyone to persevere.
英杰会可是我们武陵城的一大盛事，每五年才举办一次。主要目的是为宁州的各大势力物色资质出众的青年才俊，我们倪家也算是主办方之一。¤The Young Hero's Tournament is a major event in our Wuling City, only held once every five years. Its main purpose is to scout out talented young individuals with exceptional aptitude from various factions in Ningzhou. The Ni Family is also one of the organizers.
化尘教主修土系功法，是宁州五大门派之一，相传是万余年前从衡州来到宁州开宗立派的，行事神秘，最近似乎并不公开对外招收弟子。¤The leader of the Shifting Sand Sect specializes in earth-based techniques and is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou. It is said to have been founded over ten thousand years ago after migrating from Hengzhou to Ningzhou. Its practices are shrouded in mystery and it seems that they have not been openly accepting disciples recently.
竹山宗主修木系功法，是宁州五大门派之一，传承悠久，据说已有数十万年的历史了，他们目前似乎正在招收外门弟子。怎么，{xiongdi}你也想去试试？¤The Bamboo Mountain Sect specializes in the practice of wood-based techniques. It is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou with a history dating back about several hundred thousand years. Currently, they seem to be recruiting outer disciples. Are you interested in giving it a try, {xiongdi}?
星河剑派主修水系功法，是宁州五大门派之一，不过她们门内似乎只招女修，又行事低调，所以我对她们也所知甚少。¤The Celestial River Sword Sect focuses on water-based techniques and is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou. However, it appears that they only accept female disciples and keep a low profile, so I don't know much about them.
哈哈，指教不敢当，听说竹山宗招收外门弟子时会设一擂台，只有打赢守擂之人，才能加入。这擂台挑战对于普通散修来说颇有难度，你最好还是做足准备了再去挑战。¤Ha ha, I am humbled by your guidance. I heard that the Bamboo Mountain Sect accepts outer disciples through an arena challenge. Only those who win the challenge can join the sect. This challenge is quite difficult for ordinary independent cultivators, so it's best to prepare thoroughly before attempting it.
竹山宗主修木系功法，是宁州五大门派之一，传承悠久，据说已有数十万年的历史了...他们目前似乎正在招收外门弟子。¤The Bamboo Mountain Sect practices the technique of wood element cultivation. It is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou with a long history spanning over hundreds of thousands of years. Currently, they are apparently recruiting outer disciples.
金虹剑派主修金系功法，是宁州五大门派之一，创派之人是二十万年前九州飞升第一人的金虹剑仙。他们似乎对门内弟子的悟性要求极高，因此很少有人能过通过他们的测试。¤The Radiant Sword Sect specializes in the golden element technique. It is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou, and was founded by the Radiant Sword Immortal, who was the first to ascend to the nine continents two hundred thousand years ago. They appear to have extremely high requirements for the comprehension abilities of their disciples, which is why few are able to pass their tests.
这沂山派啊，是本地一个颇有势力的门派，也有数百年历史了，实力也不弱，但就喜欢干些杀人夺宝的缺德事儿。¤The Mt. Yi Sect is a local sect that holds considerable power and has a history of several hundred years. Their strength is not weak, but they enjoy doing despicable things like killing people and taking treasures.
英杰会虽然只是擂台赛，但修士间一动手，难免有所伤亡，{xiongdi}你如今才炼气初期修为，若是赶在今年便去参赛，实在是太危险了。¤Although the Young Hero's Tournament is only an arena competition, there is still the risk of injury among cultivators. {xiongdi}, with your current cultivation level at early Qi Refining stage, it would be too dangerous for you to participate this year.
来向倪兄请教几个问题。¤Coming to seek advice from Brother Ni on a few questions.
环境...恶劣？¤Environment...is terrible?
哈哈哈，{xiongdi}你要是有机会，去看一看便知道了。¤hahaha, brother, if you have the chance, go and see for yourself and you will know.
还请倪兄指教¤Please advise me, Brother Ni.
怎么样？准备好我们就出发吧！¤How about it? Let's set off when you're ready!
道友若想去那擂台上比试一番的话，不如先来我们宝光阁买上些许丹药啊。¤Fellow daoist, if you want to have a match on the arena, why not first come to our Treasure Light Pavilion and purchase some medicinal pills?
听那恒如...古神教卧底所言，似乎魔门正密谋着什么惊天大计......¤According to the undercover agent of the Ancient God Sect, it seems that the Demon Gate is scheming some sort of earth-shattering Great Plan...
这是...星河仙剑！如此一来我派的剑阵便可再放光芒，甚好，甚好！¤This is... Celestial River Immortal Sword! With this, my sword array can shine even brighter. Excellent, excellent!
多谢道友助我派找到此物，这是你应得的报酬！¤Thank you fellow daoist for helping my sect find this object, this is the reward you deserve!
宁州古迹凶险异常，我实在担忧往日那些师弟师妹...希望此行宗门人才莫要折损。¤The ancient ruins of Ning Province are extremely dangerous, and I am truly worried about my junior and senior sisters and brothers from previous days. I hope that the members of the clan on this journey won't suffer any losses.
我派传承已有万余年，其中不少功法都遗失在了这漫长年月中，若在宁州古迹中能够找回一些自然是宗门大幸。¤Our sect has been inheriting for over ten thousand years, and many techniques have been lost during this long period of time. If we can find some in the ancient ruins of Ning Province, it would be a great fortune for our clan.
你神识远超同水平修士，一眼便看出这只是一个预警阵法，在你敛息之下，倒也能瞒天过海。¤Your soul sense exceeds that of cultivators of the same level. At a glance, you could tell that this is just a warning array. With your restraint, you can also deceive the heavens and pass unnoticed.
你对阵道颇有研究，轻易便将入口的阵法破除了。¤You have a considerable understanding of array dao, easily breaking the entrance array.
方壶山本是郁郁葱葱，草木繁茂，可是此处的树木大半都枯萎发黄，地上也布满了干枯的落叶，老死的树皮以及折断的杂草。¤Fang Hu Mountain was originally lush and flourishing, with abundant vegetation. However, most of the trees here have withered and turned yellow. The ground is also covered with dry, fallen leaves, dead tree bark and broken weeds.
越往深处走，树木的枯萎便越严重。你顺着这个方向，找到了枯木林的中心——“枯木老祖”的洞府。你围着洞府四处搜寻了一番，但一无所获。¤As you venture deeper into the forest, the trees become more and more withered. Following this trend, you eventually arrive at the core of the Deadwood Forest – Patriarch Deadwood's cave. You search around the cave, but alas, find nothing.
整体弥漫着一股腐朽、衰败之感。若不说这是方壶山，外人绝不可能想到，此处竟然是竹山宗的辖地。¤The atmosphere here was filled with a sense of decay and decline. If it wasn't for the fact that this was Fang Hu Mountain, outsiders wouldn't have guessed that this was actually under the jurisdiction of the Bamboo Mountain Sect.
这四周什么也没有，看来只有进去才能找到线索了...¤There's nothing around here, it seems like we have to go in to find any clues...
洞府入口有一个小型阵法，你打算...¤At the entrance of the cave, there is a small array. You plan to...
好像...这样就可以了？¤It seems like...this should be enough?
你凭借自己对阵道的理解随意摆弄了一下阵法，似乎没有什么反应...¤You used your own understanding of the array dao to freely manipulate the array, but it seems to have no response...
上次看这里还没有如此不堪，这些年究竟发生了什么？¤Last time I checked, it wasn't so disastrous here. What happened over the years?
你隐约觉得这只是一个预警阵法，于是你收敛气息，打算瞒天过海。¤You faintly sense that this is just a warning array, so you conceal your breath and plan to pass through undetected.
我派目前还有授业的有三位长老，分别是明河，龙阳\r和镇元三位前辈，你想了解哪一位？¤Currently in our sect, there are three elders who are still actively teaching. They are Minghe, Longyang, and Zhenyuan, three senior disciples. Which one would you like to know more about?
龙阳上人主修的是我派功法《流光真决》，对敌时能利用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力大幅度提升金系法门的威能。\r\n¤The venerable dragon light cultivates our sect's technique, flowing radiance arts, which can greatly enhance the power of metal-based spells by utilizing the phasing of the five elements when facing enemies.
还来？？¤Are you still here??
结婴秘术《分神术》，若运用得当可短暂抵御心魔，仅能在结婴时使用。¤The Nascent Array Skills 《Distraction Skill》, if used correctly, can briefly resist the Demon Heart. It can only be used during the Nascent stage.
分配完毕后，许多修士向你投来羡慕的目光。但你只是淡定的先行离开了。¤After the allocation was finished, many cultivators cast envious glances at you. But you remained calm and left first.
于剑魄竹成熟时脱落的灵叶，蕴含剑之道韵的叶子，极为稀有。¤The Lingye that fell off when the Sword Spirit Bamboo was mature, contains the essence of swordsmanship, and is extremely rare.
看来这就是涵虚仙人的法宝和传承所在了。¤It seems that this is where the artifact and legacy of Hanxu Immortal are located.
还没等你们前去查看，又有修士在附近发现了几件完好的法宝，若干丹药。¤Before you could even go check, some cultivators nearby have discovered several intact artifacts and a number of elixirs.
蕴含火之道韵的5阶药材，芒焰果。¤A fifth-grade medicinal material imbued with the essence of the Fire Dao, Flame Soul Mango.
等你和各大势力少主、长老等人离开后，余下的修士才慢慢散去。¤After you and the young masters, elders, and other forces leave, the remaining cultivators slowly disperse.
感谢{FirstName}道友此次积极助力，可以优先选择一件二等奖励，两件三等奖励。¤Thank you, fellow daoist {FirstName}, for your active assistance this time. You can choose one item from the second prize or two items from the third prize as a priority reward.
{FirstName}道友此次贡献杰出，可以优先选择一件一等奖励，两件二等奖励，三件三等奖励。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, your contribution this time is outstanding. You may choose one first prize, two second prizes, and three third prizes as rewards.
待你离开后，其他修士才陆续散去。¤After you left, other cultivators gradually dispersed.
你几乎拿到了全部奖励。周围修士也因此投来嫉妒的目光，若不是各大势力的少主、长老等都在向你祝贺，恐怕已是有人因为嫉妒而向你出手夺宝。¤You have almost obtained all the rewards. The surrounding cultivators looked at you with envy because of this. If it weren't for the congratulations from the young masters and elders of various powers, someone would have already tried to steal your treasures out of jealousy.
这次涵虚仙府之行{FirstName}道友几乎解决了所有难题，可以优先选取两件一等奖励，三件二等奖励，四件三等奖励。¤On this trip to Huanxu Palace, Fellow Daoist {FirstName} has resolved almost all problems and can prioritize selecting two first-place rewards, three second-place rewards, and four third-place rewards.
由于之前商量过分配方法，大家又出于各种因素并没有想违反这一约定，所以只是选了一个最为公正的修士主持分配，并没有出现哄抢和刀剑相向的局面。¤Due to the previous agreement on distribution methods, and various other factors, everyone did not intend to violate this agreement. Therefore, a cultivator was selected to preside over the allocation, and there was no situation of scrambling or pointing swords at each other.
你循声望去，看到高台上静坐着一具枯骨。它身前放着一把光芒暗淡的灵剑，一个暗淡的玉简，还有一个已然碎裂的玉简。¤As you followed your reputation, you saw a skeleton sitting quietly on top of a high platform. In front of it was a dimly glowing spirit sword, a dim jade scroll, and a jade scroll that had already been shattered.
你们集中整理了所得秘宝，除了大家看不上的大众货色外，被分为一二三等奖励。¤You concentrate on sorting the treasures you obtained, and apart from the common items that no one is interested in, they are categorized into first, second, and third tier rewards.
分配完毕后，众人陆续离去了。¤After the distribution was completed, everyone left one after another.
五品灵舟，旋龟舟。¤Fifth-class spirit boat, turtle boat.
{FirstName}道友此次贡献非凡，可以优先选择一件一等奖励，三件二等奖励，四件三等奖励。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, your contribution this time is outstanding. You may choose one first-class reward, three second-class rewards, or four third-class rewards in priority.
分配完毕后，你感受到了许多羡慕的目光，但你只是淡定的收起奖励，与围上来的倪旭欣，李青麟等人打过招呼后先行离开了。¤After distributing the rewards, you felt many envious gazes, but you calmly put away the rewards and left first after greeting Ni Xuxin, Li Qinglin, and others who crowded around.
一共五本，分别包含了涵虚仙人对剑，阵，火，气，体五道的领悟。研读后可以获得大量悟道经验。¤There are a total of five books, each containing the enlightenment of Hanxu Immortal to the five paths of sword, formation, fire, qi, and body. By studying them, you can gain a lot of enlightenment experience.
阵法核心全部被击破后，阵法空间随之消失。你环视一圈后发现阵法内部的修士都被传送到了附近，他们大都伤痕累累，不过倒是出奇的没有修士陨落于此，受伤最重的炎萧在经过简单的治疗后也是看起来没有大碍。¤After the core of the array was completely destroyed, the array space disappeared. You looked around and found that the cultivators inside the array had been transported nearby. Most of them were badly wounded, but surprisingly no cultivator fell here. Yan Xiao, who was the most injured, seemed to be fine after receiving some basic treatment.
朱珀剑，下品法宝，使用时获得【剑气】*8。¤Jupiter Sword, a low-grade artifact, when used gains 8 sword qi.
完璧吴魁，上品法宝，每次受到伤害时，移除自身【易伤】*1¤Complete Wu Kui, a high-grade artifact, removes its own vulnerability *1 every time it is hurt.
道源丹，服用后可以获得一点悟道点。¤The Origin Dao Pill can grant a bit of enlightenment points upon consumption.
鬼面炼心丹，服用后心境+7。¤Ghost Face Tempered Heart Pill, when consumed, increases mental state by 7 points.
4阶火属性材料火麟玉*4。¤4th tier fire attribute materials, fire-lynx jade x4.
这就点本事，也要帮朋友出头？¤Even if you have some skills, do you still have to stand up for your friend?
哈哈哈哈，就知道你厉害。这些灵石你拿着，下次有难还找你忙帮！¤Hahaha, I knew you were capable. Take these spirit stones and if there's trouble next time, I'll come to you for help!
哈哈哈哈，真当是解气！这些灵石你拿着，莫跟我客气！¤Hahaha, that's satisfying! You can take these spirit stones, don't be polite with me!
唉…虽然还是输了，但这份心意我是不会忘记的。这两颗培元丹你拿着，快回去养伤吧。¤Sigh... although I still lost, I won't forget this kindness. Take these two lesser healing pills and go back to heal quickly.
他恶狠狠地看了你一眼，带着一群小弟灰头土脸的离开了。¤He gave you a fierce look and left with a group of lackeys with dirt on their faces.
唉…本来我也打不过，这下你替我把打挨了，还真感觉挺对不起你的…总之先给你两颗培元丹，快回去疗伤吧。¤Ah...I couldn't have won in the first place, and now you've taken the beating for me. I really feel sorry for you... Anyway, here are two Lesser Healing Pills. Hurry up and go back to heal yourself.
随着你最后一击攻去，他应声倒下，身形极为狼狈，嘴角还挂着些许血丝。¤As you delivered your final blow, he fell to the ground with a wretched appearance, with a trace of blood still hanging at the corner of his mouth.
之前簇拥在他周围的修士们一个个都瞪大了双眼，鸦雀无声。¤Before, the cultivators that crowded around him all widened their eyes, silent as a mouse.
唉…虽然没打过，但你也太够意思了。快服下这两颗培元丹，你要是出了什么差错，我非得挖个坑把自己埋了不可。¤Ah... Although we haven't fought before, you are still very kind. Quickly take these two lesser healing pills. If you make any mistakes, I'll have to dig a hole and bury myself.
{FirstName}道友果然实力不凡，今日多谢了，这么点灵石，不成谢意。¤Fellow {FirstName}, your strength is indeed extraordinary. Thank you so much for today. These few spirit stones are not worthy of thanks.
在一片哄笑声中，你缓缓站起身来，向外走去。¤Amidst the laughter, you slowly stand up and walk out.
你并不是他的对手，不一会儿便败下阵来。¤You are not his match and will soon be defeated.
多...多谢前辈手下留情。¤Thank you very much, senior, for sparing me.
哈哈哈哈哈哈哈¤Hahaha
小娃娃，回去再修炼个三五年吧。¤Little kid, go back and continue your cultivation for another three to five years.
云雾消散，你闯过了幻雾阵，熟悉的场景又回到了你的眼前...¤The mist dissipated, and you broke through the Mirage Mist Array. The familiar scene returned before your eyes...
这机关傀儡虽然笨重，但威力不俗。若是不能熟练使用新学会的防御神通释放护罩，即便有练气巅峰的修为也难说能胜过它。¤Although this puppet trap is heavy, its power is not to be underestimated. Even if one's cultivation is at its peak, they may not be able to defeat it without being proficient in the newly learned divine skill of defence, which releases a shield.
怎么样，准备再试一次么？¤What about it? Are you ready to try again?
等你掌握了我教给你的基础神通后，再来吧。¤Come back once you've mastered the basic divine skills I've taught you.
本门外门弟子的基础神通你已经全部掌握了，若想再学习其它法术，可以自行去宗门藏经阁借阅。¤You have already learned all the basic divine skills of being an outer disciple of our clan. If you wish to learn other spells, you can go to the manual collection of the clan and borrow them yourself. 
嗯，不错。看来你已经学会了本门的基础神通，让我看看你到底掌握的怎么样吧。¤Ah, not bad. It seems like you have already learned the foundational divine skill of our sect. Let me see just how well you have mastered it.
这两本秘籍你且收好，待全部领悟后再回来找我，我会考验你的学习情况，然后教你其它的进阶法门。¤Take these two secret manuals and keep them safe. Come back to me once you have fully enlightened yourself with them. I will test your learning progress and teach you other advanced techniques afterwards.
尝试运用{$shentong1}与{$shentong2}，在机关傀儡的攻击下至少支撑{color=#d0380a}六{/color}个回合。¤Attempt to utilize the {$shentong1} and {$shentong2} abilities to withstand at least {color=#d0380a}six{/color} rounds of attacks from the puppet trap.
嗯，既是刚入门的弟子，须得先从基础的神通学起。¤Well, as a newly initiated disciple, you must start by learning the fundamental divine skills.
至于《{$shentong2}》，则是基础的防御性神通。实战时可搭配{$shentong1}使用，运用得当则可抵挡大量伤害。¤As for the 《{$shentong2}》, it is a basic defensive divine skill. It can be used in conjunction with {$shentong1} in actual combat, and if used properly, it can withstand a considerable amount of damage.
《{$shentong1}》是我派入门之必修法术。不仅能用来调度体内灵气，还可触发五行连击的效果，提升其它神通的威能，妙用无穷。¤《{$shentong1}》 is a must-learn spell when joining our sect. It not only helps to control the spiritual energy within the body, but also triggers the effect of the Five Elements Combo Strike, enhancing the power of other divine skills. Its versatility knows no bounds.
失去剑灵操控的飞剑，纷纷跌落在了地上。还没等你缓过口气，只见远方养剑池处，一道黑色的剑气冲天而起，魔气四溢...¤The flying sword, without being controlled by the sword spirit, fell to the ground one after another. Before you could catch your breath, a black sword qi rose into the sky from the sword pool in the distance, with magic qi overflowing...
多谢仙师，多谢仙师！¤Thank you, immortal master. Thank you, immortal master!
趁爷爷我心情好，不想死的话就快滚！¤While I'm in a good mood, if you don't want to die, then get lost!
仙师饶命，仙师饶命啊！是我有眼不识泰山，冒犯了仙师，还请仙师不要与小人计较，放我一条生路啊！¤Immortal Master, spare me! Spare me, Immortal Master! I have eyes but failed to recognize Mount Tai. I have offended the Immortal Master. Please do not hold a grudge against me. I beg for mercy and hope to be spared!
站住站住，眼睛放大点，这里是你该来的地方么？¤Stop right there, eyes wide open. Is this the place you're supposed to come to?
你略施了几个小法术就将山贼吓趴在地。¤You used a few small spells to scare the bandits and make them fall to the ground.
（这些山贼或许也是因家中贫困不得已落草为寇，倒也不必因此就赶尽杀绝...）¤(Perhaps these bandits turned to a life of crime due to poverty in their families. There is no need to completely eradicate them because of this.)
一伙劫匪占据了这里的山头，你刚一走近，就被一人拦住。¤A group of bandits have taken over this mountain, and as soon as you approached, you were stopped by someone.
在你的威胁下，这窝山贼一哄而散，想必是不敢再生事端了。¤Under your threats, these bandits scattered in fear and dare not cause trouble again.
你不愿与这些凡人多费口舌，手起刀落，几息之间便将寨子里的数十个山贼尽数解决，没有留下一个活口。¤You didn't want to waste any more breath with these mortals, so you drew your sword and within moments, you had taken care of the dozens of bandits in the stronghold, not leaving a single survivor.
我给你们一天时间，把抢来的粮食财物都归还给附近的村子，然后把这寨子给我烧了。日后若再让我看到你们为非作歹，就别怪我手下不留情了！¤I'm giving you one day to return all the food and possessions you stole to the nearby village, and then burn down this village. If I catch you causing trouble again in the future, don't blame me for not showing mercy!
这些山贼只是普通凡人，不通法术，要解决他们并非难事，你决定...？¤These bandits are just mortals and don't know any spells. It won't be difficult to take care of them. What do you decide to do?
正是！既已取得灵草，我便告辞了。¤That's right! Since I've already obtained the spiritual herb, I will take my leave.
你从玉匣中取出草药，只见其叶片薄如蝉翼，透如琉璃，绿如碧松。¤You take out herbs from the jade box, only to see its leaves thin as cicada wings, translucent like glaze, and green like blue pine.
你收拾行装，告别了棠阿三与阮五娘。¤You packed your belongings and bid farewell to Tong Ah San and Ruan Wuniang.
你在镇上小住了几日后，阮五娘终于带来了消息。¤After staying in the town for a few days, Ruan Wuniang finally brought news.
前辈，我前些阵子托三姐到玉梁边上取来了这灵药，你看可是你所求的？¤Senior, a while ago I asked Third Sister to retrieve this spiritual medicine from the Yu Liang area. Is this what you were looking for?
不错，此前我在幻境中遭遇的魔修和金虹剑仙，多半也是这古树梦境中的投影。¤Not bad, the demonic cultivator and Radiant Sword Immortal that I encountered in the Illusionary Realm before were probably projections from this Ancient Tree Dreamland.
你把自己看到的画面向魏无极一一转述。¤You relayed the scene you saw to Wei Wuji in detail.
在你醒来前都没有什么异常...你刚刚看到什么了？¤Everything was normal before you woke up... What did you just see?
还有最后我看到的那个背影，又会是什么人呢...¤What kind of person will that silhouette I saw last be...
古树似乎彻底被唤醒了，海底数百根粗壮的根须将整片图南海搅动的天翻地覆。好在你赶在被这些根须缠住之前，逃回了海面。¤It seems that the ancient tree has been completely awakened, as hundreds of strong root whiskers from the sea floor have stirred up the entire South Tu Sea. Fortunately, you managed to escape back to the surface before being entangled by these root whiskers.
唉...大千世界，无奇不有。¤Ah...in the world of the thousands, there is nothing strange.
如果这些动辄划破空间的大战场景真的是古树的梦境，那肯定算不上什么好梦。¤If these battlegrounds that tear through space are really the ancient tree's dream, then it definitely can't be considered a sweet dream.
怎么回事，这些根须怎么又开始动起来了。¤What's going on? How come these root whiskers have started moving again?
此番若不是靠着诛仙剑，还不知能否脱险...若是为了这点好奇心，毁了自己千年修为，可就不值得了。¤If it weren't for the Immortal Sword, I wouldn't know if I could escape this time... If it's just for a little bit of curiosity, destroying one's cultivation of a thousand years is not worth it.
那正魔之战就已是十万年前的事了，尚有记载的金虹剑仙飞升更是过去二十余万年...再往前的上古辛秘，谁又能弄的清呢。¤The battle between righteousness and evil occurred 100,000 years ago. The legendary Radiant Sword Immortal, whose name is recorded, ascended more than 20,000 years ago. As for the secrets of the ancient times, who can truly understand them?
万年前的正魔之战，金虹剑仙一剑开天，还有上古神兽间毁天灭地的战斗...¤The battle between righteousness and evil thousands of years ago, where the Radiant Sword Immortal opened the sky with a single strike, and the ancient beasts engaged in destructive combat...
门口仅有两名守卫与一名金丹修士。两守卫分别负责凡人和低阶修士的入城手续，倒也是井井有条。¤At the entrance, there were only two guards and a cultivator with a golden core. The two guards respectively handled the procedures for mortals and low-level cultivators entering the city, and they were quite organized.
遵城主令！奸诈之辈不得入！残虐之辈不得入！妖邪之辈不得入！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Obey the city lord's orders! Those who are deceitful must not enter! Those who are cruel must not enter! Those who are demonic and evil must not enter! {vpunch=10,0.5}
大概是考虑到城中还需要他坐镇，此人并没有追你太久便主动解除锁定离去了。¤Probably considering that he still needs to stay in the city, this person didn't pursue you for too long and took the initiative to release the lock and leave.
依旧是一众守卫在门口盘查着来往凡人，身后两三修士在闭目养神。¤Still, a crowd of guards were checking mortal passers-by at the door, while two or three cultivators behind them were meditating with closed eyes.
修士并未理会你的储物袋，反倒是从储物袋中取出了传音符。你只得运起遁术先行离去。¤The cultivator paid no attention to your storage pouch, but instead took out a sound talisman from it. You had no choice but to use your mobility technique to leave first.
你发现原本喧闹的护城大阵外如今却是安静了不少，在严格的管制下连初入人流都少上了许多，反倒是多了一众守卫，三两修士。¤You notice that the once bustling defensive array around the city has now become quite quiet. Under strict control, even the flow of people entering the city has decreased. However, there are now more guards and a few cultivators present.
就在你即将进入城中时，一股强大的神识扫过，却径直掠过你向其他位置而去。¤Just as you were about to enter the city, a powerful soul sense swept over you but directly passed by and went towards another location.
刚从传送阵中迈出，一股神识冲击迎面而来。你闷哼一声，脑中一阵眩晕，接连退后几步才稳住心神。却正好退到了传送阵中。¤Just as you step out of the teleportation array, a surge of soul sense hits you head-on. You groan and your mind goes dizzy, taking several steps back before steadying yourself. It just so happens that you've stepped back into the teleportation array.
依旧是两个守卫在门口注视着来往凡人，身后一个修士闭目养神。¤Still two guards were standing at the gate watching the mortals passing by, while a cultivator behind them was meditating with closed eyes.
在魏无极出声的同时，你运起遁术迅速远离。¤At the same time that Wei Wuji spoke, you used your mobility technique to quickly move away.
还好传送阵仍在运行中。在下一波神识攻击来到前，你强行催动阵法离开了天星城。¤Luckily, the teleportation array was still in operation. Before the next wave of soul sense strikes arrived, you forcefully activated the array and left Starsky City.
在魏无极出声的同时，你运起遁术迅速远离，却发现并没有人追上来。显然是觉得你既已自行离去，没有赶尽杀绝的必要。¤As Wei Wuji spoke up, you activated your mobility skill and quickly moved away, but no one pursued you. Obviously they thought that since you had already left on your own, there was no need to chase you down and kill you.
当你走上前去，准备像往常一样进入城中时，门口的修士却径直用神识锁定了你，同时催动功法，随时准备动手。¤As you walked forward, preparing to enter the city as usual, the cultivator stationed at the gate immediately locked onto you with their soul sense and activated their technique, ready to attack at any moment.
念及自己声望较低，你远远地观察着这曾是经常初入的护城大阵出入口。¤Considering your low reputation, you stayed far away and observed the entrance that used to be frequently used by those entering and leaving the defensive formation.
当你走近，修士猛地睁开眼，神识也紧紧锁定着你。¤As you approach, the cultivator suddenly opens their eyes, their soul sense also locking onto you tightly.
是{FirstName}{LastName}！快传音城主府供奉！¤It's {FirstName}{LastName}! Quickly spread the news to the City Lord's Mansion guest elder!
而那金丹修士却是在闭目养神。只有在筑基期及以上的修士通过时，才会稍稍睁眼。¤And the cultivator with a golden core was meditating with closed eyes. Only when cultivators at the foundation establishment stage or above passed by, would they slightly open their eyes.
这位小友我还有事，剑你帮我保管好。¤Young friend, I have some business to attend to. Please help me keep the sword safe.
说罢玄骨携带着一团精血破开空间，转身离开。¤After finishing speaking, Xuan Bone broke through the space with a ball of essence blood, turned around, and left.
这就是炼妖散么？把自己变成这不人不妖的怪物，最后落个形神俱灭。¤Is this the 'Demon Refining Powder'? It transforms oneself into a monster that is neither human nor demon, ultimately resulting in both physical and spiritual extinction.
你就是他师傅吧，他本来是托我救你的。¤You are his master, right? He was originally entrusted me to save you.
算了，先出去吧。¤Never mind, let's go out first.
算了，先去看看轩岚诺吧。¤Alright, let's go take a look at Xuan Lannuo.
我？我不配，倒是道友见到他记得告诉他不要报仇保住宗门传承要紧。我们斗不过古神教的。¤Me? I'm not worthy. However, if you see him, fellow daoist, please tell him not to seek revenge and to prioritize protecting the clan's legacy. We are no match for the Ancient God Sect.
一击惊魂咒命中他，他愣神间也被阵法斩杀，尸体瞬间被抽干。¤The spell of spiritual awareness struck him with one blow, and in his moment of confusion, he was instantly slain by an array. His body was drained of life in an instant.
咳~咳~~~道友，可认识岚诺？¤Ahem~ Fellow Daoist, do you happen to know Lannuo?
还想着自爆元婴？¤Still thinking of self-destructing your nascent soul?
长生难求，总有人想另辟蹊径啊。¤Eternal life is hard to come by, there are always people who want to find another way.
在你和这怪物纠缠的时候，玄古门弟子已经被斩杀殆尽了，仅剩那名元婴修士。¤While you were engaged with the monster, all the disciples of the Profound Ancient Sect have been killed, except for one Nascent Soul cultivator.
说罢他身体失去支撑而倒下，气息开始消散，肉身也逐渐崩解。¤After speaking, his body lost its support and collapsed, his breath began to dissipate, and his physical form gradually disintegrated.
此时被你击败的掌门也恢复了理智。¤At this moment, the defeated master has also regained his sanity.
一道神识扫过，你似乎被什么人盯上了...¤A strand of soul sense swept over you, and it seemed like someone was staring at you...
站住，此地乃我派驻地，非我{$Var}弟子不得擅入！¤Halt, this is my sect's stationed land, unauthorized entry is prohibited for non-{$Var} disciples!
我们从蓬莎岛出发，距离这里最近的当属{color=#d0380a}碎星岛{/color}了。那里由海上最大的商会势力掌控。¤We set off from Pongsha Island, but the closest island is undoubtedly {color=#d0380a}Shattered Star Island{/color}. It's controlled by the largest maritime commercial guild.
蓬莎岛是这无尽之海上远近闻名的散修势力，散修们在这里交换物资与妖兽情报，然后才出海猎杀妖兽。¤Pongsha Island is a well-known wandering cultivator force in the Endless Sea. Cultivators come here to trade resources and information on spirit beasts before heading out to hunt them in the sea.
我从小就在这片海域玩耍，对这里可是熟悉的很，不过...我们是不是走错了方向？¤Since I was young, I have been playing in this sea area, so I am very familiar with it, but... Have we gone in the wrong direction?
但相传曾有前辈在这片海域利用雷云淬炼肉体，我对此也神往已久，真是了不得的修为！¤But it is said that a senior once used thunder and lightning to refine their body in this sea area. I have always been fascinated by this cultivation method, it truly is amazing!
这里便是浪方海域，因传说中的化神期海兽浪方大圣而得名。¤This is the Langfang Sea, named after the legendary sea beast of the deity transformation period, the Great Sage Langfang.
家中从未有长辈提及祖上原居住在碎星岛，其中居然有这样的秘辛......¤In the family, no elder ever mentioned that our ancestors used to live on Shattered Star Island. There's such a hidden secret there...
在这片海域出没的吞云蟒，也是海域上最负凶名的海兽之一。以我们现在的修为，在这里还需小心行事。¤The cloud swallowing boa that inhabits this sea area is also one of the most notorious sea beasts. With our current cultivation, we still need to be cautious when traveling here.
哈哈哈，既然如此，我们就先去那{color=#d0380a}碎星岛{/color}看看吧。¤Hahaha, in that case, let's go take a look at the {color=#d0380a}Shattered Star Island{/color} first.
这里是千流海，据说这片海域被千流岛的连家掌控着，非常神秘。早就听说千流岛神通威能不俗，不知此行能否有机会见识一下。¤This is the Myriad Rivers Sea, said to be controlled by the Lian family of Myriad Rivers Island, which is very mysterious. I've heard that the divine skills of Myriad Rivers Island are quite powerful, and I don't know if I'll have a chance to witness them on this trip.
在这片海域出没的巨鲲，也是海域上最负凶名的海兽之一。以我们现在的修为，在这里还需小心行事。¤In this sea area, one of the most notorious sea beasts is the sea beast that appears here. With our current cultivation, we must still proceed with caution.
除此以外，还有像南崖城，碎星岛这样的大岛，各州修士云集，珍宝无数，更会定期举办拍卖会，也是涨见识的好去处。¤In addition, there are large islands like South Cliff City and Shattered Star Island. Cultivators from various states gather there, and there are countless treasures. They also regularly hold auctions, making it a great place to broaden one's horizons.
这里是阴冥海，无尽之海上最为神秘危险的海域之一，我对这里也知之甚少...¤This is the deep yin sea, one of the most mysterious and dangerous areas on the endless sea. I know very little about this place...
我曾听家族长辈说起过无尽之海中的诸多海域，这其中最危险的，莫过于西面的无尽海渊，雷鸣海，以及最南方的玄冥海，阴冥海和幽冥海了。即便修为达到元婴期的大能，也不愿独自一人深入那里。¤I have heard the elders of my clan talk about many dangerous areas in the endless sea, among which the most perilous are the Thunder Sea and the Deep Yin Sea to the west, as well as the Deep Hell Sea and the Underworld Sea in the southernmost region. Even powerful cultivators at the Nascent Soul stage would not dare to venture alone into those places.
无尽海渊...这里的海沟据说是无尽之海已知区域的最深处。我听过不少有关这里的传说，那些最为强悍的深海妖兽都生活在这里。¤The Endless Abyss...The deep sea trenches here are said to be the deepest part of the known area of the Endless Sea. I have heard many legends about this place, where the most powerful sea spirit beasts reside.
这里是西宁海，经常会有一些金丹期修为的海兽出没，比起北宁海可是危险的多。¤This is the West Ning Sea, where there are often sea beasts with golden cores cultivation level appearing. It's much more dangerous than the North Ning Sea.
这里便是南崖海域，大名鼎鼎南崖城就建立这这极南之地。¤This is the South Cliff Sea, where the renowned South Cliff City was established in this southern land.
这里是北宁海，也是宁州的近海，多是一些只有筑基修为的小型海兽出没，没什么危险的。¤This is the North Ning Sea, which is also the sea near Ningzhou. It is mostly inhabited by small sea beasts with only Foundation Building cultivation, so it is not very dangerous.
我们百里家便是做的这妖兽材料的生意，不过也只是低价从海上收购一些材料，再运回宁州高价卖出而已。¤Our Baili family specializes in dealing with spirit beast materials. However, we only purchase them at a low price from the sea and then sell them at a high price back in Ningzhou.
这里是图南海，这里的灵气乱流尤为危险，但仍然不断有人来这里冒险，为的便是能寻得那传说中的问道花。这种草药可是炼制悟道丹的必需品。¤This is South Tu Sea, where the spiritual energy is chaotic and dangerous, yet people keep coming here to take risks, all for the sake of finding the legendary Dao Seeker Flower. This herb is an essential ingredient in refining the Enlightenment Pill.
以我们现在的修为，在这里还需小心行事。¤With our current level of cultivation, we still need to be cautious in our actions here.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，有什么事么？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, is there something you need?
只要跟着这附近的商船行驶，就能抵达那些正在举办交易会的小岛，和岛上的修士交换，补充所需的物资。¤As long as we sail with the nearby merchant ships, we can reach the small islands where trade shows are being held and exchange goods with the cultivators on the islands to replenish our supplies.
若是我们百里家的商队能与商会合作，对于双方都是百利而无一害的好事。当年叔父商队遇难之事，我也想好好调查清楚。¤If our Baili family's caravan could cooperate with the merchant association, it would be beneficial for both parties without any harm. I also want to investigate thoroughly the incident where my uncle's caravan got into an accident years ago.
这无尽之海竟如此宽广，真是不悔此行！¤This endless sea is so vast, I have no regrets embarking on this journey!
这里是南宁海，经常会有一些金丹期修为的海兽出没，比起北宁海可是危险的多。¤This is the South Ning Sea, where sea beasts with golden cores cultivation level often appear. It's much more dangerous than the North Ning Sea.
这里是化龙海，龙族所掌控的海域。¤This is the Shifting Dragon Sea, the sea territory controlled by the Dragon Clan.
这里便是吞云海，因传说中的化神期海兽吞云大圣而得名。¤This is the Swallowing Cloud Sea, named after the legendary sea beast, the Cloud Swallowing Saint, of the Deity Transformation stage.
一般来说，龙族不会主动攻击这里来往的人类商船，但我们最好也不要主动招惹它们。¤Generally speaking, the dragon clan won't strike at the human merchant ships passing through here on their own initiative, but it's better for us not to provoke them either.
终于到碎星海域了，据说那碎星岛就位于这片海域的中心地带。¤Finally arrived at the Shattered Star Sea. It is said that the Shattered Star Island is located in the central area of this sea.
百里兄，无尽之海这般广阔，你想先去哪里？¤Brother Baili, with the Endless Sea being so vast, where do you want to go first?
这里是幽冥海，无尽之海上最为神秘危险的海域之一，我对这里也知之甚少...¤This is the Deep Hell Sea, one of the most mystical and dangerous areas of the Endless Sea. I know very little about this place...
这雷鸣海被一年四季不间断的雷云所笼罩，就连元婴期修士也难以抵抗，可以说是无尽之海最危险的区域之一。¤The Thunder Sea is constantly shrouded in thunderclouds throughout the year, even Nascent Soul cultivators find it difficult to resist. It can be said to be one of the most dangerous areas in the Endless Sea.
哈哈哈，我也正想活动活动筋骨，请！¤Hahaha, I was just thinking of stretching my muscles. Please!
这里是东海，都说灵气乱流尤为危险，但仍然不断有人来这里冒险，为的便是能寻得那传说中的三尾风叶！这种草药可是炼制结婴所需丹药的必需品。¤This is the East Sea. It's said that the spiritual energy here is turbulent, making it particularly dangerous. However, there are still many people who come here to take risks in search of the legendary windsoul leaf! This herb is an essential ingredient for the nascent-realm elixirs.
最重要的是，这南崖城可是建立在化神期海兽的骸骨之上！想想就令人心潮澎湃。¤The most important thing is, South Cliff City is built on the bones of sea beasts that have reached Void Transformation stage! Just the thought of it makes one's heart race.
这里是玄冥海，无尽之海上最为神秘危险的海域之一，我对这里也知之甚少...¤This is the Deep Black Sea, one of the most mysterious and dangerous areas on the Endless Sea. I know very little about this place...
{shixiong}留步，这二楼的秘阁存放的都是我派独门传承的秘籍，只对在我派内的长老和供奉们开放。¤Shixiong, please wait. The secret pavilion on the second floor contains all the secret manuals of our sect, which are only accessible to the elders and guest elders within our sect.
{shidi}留步，这二楼的秘阁存放的都是我派独门传承的秘籍，只对在我派的长老和供奉们开放。¤{shidi}, stay a moment. The secret manuals stored in this second floor's secret pavilion are all exclusive heritage of our sect, only accessible to our elder and guest elder members.
此前遇到的那些魂体都对岛主颇有微词，看来道友很是信任岛主？¤The previous soul bodies that we encountered had some complaints towards the island master, so it seems like fellow daoist really trusts the island master?
万魂殿此行由他们大长老带队，专门捕捉我们这些魂体，以供她炼制万魂幡。¤The Ten Thousand Soul Palace is led by their Grand Elder on this trip, specifically capturing our Soul Bodies to use as materials to refine the Ten Thousand Soul Banner.
你可知她具体在何处？那万魂幡究竟又是何物？¤Do you know where she specifically is? And what exactly is the Ten Thousand Soul Banner?
这么说，道友乃是岛主亲信之人？关于复生之术的消息，道友可否透露一二？¤So, fellow daoist, are you a trusted person of the island lord? Can you reveal some information about the technique of reincarnation?
至于具体在何处，你将海图给我，我给你指明便是。¤As for the specific location, provide me with a sea map and I will point it out for you.
她让手下四处布阵收集灵魂，而自己却躲在深海处独自祭炼万魂幡。¤She had her subordinates set up formations to collect souls while she hid in the depths of the sea, refining the Ten Thousand Soul Banner on her own.
抱歉，即便你有恩于我，我也断然不能透露此事。¤Sorry, even if you have a debt of gratitude towards me, I absolutely cannot reveal this matter.
好险...看来这万魂殿也不是那么好对付的，接下来还是得更加小心才是...¤It was close... It seems that the Wanhun Hall is not easy to deal with. I have to be even more careful from now on...
好在此幡还未祭炼完成，道友若想对付此獠，还需尽快出手。¤Fortunately, this banner has not been fully refined yet. Fellow Daoist, if you want to deal with this beast, you need to act quickly.
敢问，道友也是为了收集神阴石才冒险来此？¤May I ask, fellow daoist, did you also come to this place to collect shenyin stones?
岛主的良苦用心，也只有我们这些心腹之人知晓了。¤The island owner's well-intentioned efforts are only known by us trusted confidants.
此前的确有打探到不少消息，倒是可以与道友细说一二。¤Before this, I did indeed gather quite a bit of information. I could share it with my fellow daoist in more detail.
他略带警惕地看了你一眼。¤He looked at you with a hint of vigilance.
多谢道友相救。我并非为神阴石来此。¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for saving me. I did not come here for the shenyin stone.
那些人不曾为阴魂岛出过力，自然要与我等区分对待。¤Those who have not contributed to Ghost Island should be treated differently from us.
此前受岛主之托，来调查魂体失踪一事。只是那阵法当真诡异，我稍一疏忽便被发现了。¤Previously, at the request of the island master, I came to investigate the disappearance of soul bodies. However, that array was truly strange, and I was discovered with just a slight oversight.
阵法中飞出了一位相当凝实的魂体。¤A solid soul body flew out from the array.
（他们各执一词，也不知究竟该相信谁…）¤(They each hold their own words, and they don't know who to believe in the end...)
还有一事，道友此前可有打探到万魂殿的消息？¤Fellow daoist, have you obtained any information about the Hall of Ten Thousand Souls previously?
顾名思义，那万魂幡便是收集无数冤魂祭炼而出的至邪之物，至于究竟有何威力便不得而知了。¤As the name suggests, the ten thousand soul banner is a supremely evil object made by collecting countless aggrieved souls for sacrificial refinement. The exact extent of its power is unknown.
那你为何要冒此风险？¤Why did you take this risk?
太好了，我也是慕名而来，想看看能不能交易到一些有用的东西。¤Great, I also came here because of the reputation and want to see if I can trade for some useful things.
道友...道友留步！¤Fellow daoist... Please stay a while!
不知道友可是来这里参加交易会的？¤I don't know fellow daoist, are you here to participate in the trade fair?
无妨无妨，既然如此，在下还是去岛上其它的小店再看一看吧。¤No harm, no harm. Since that's the case, I'll go check out the other small shops on the island.
哈哈哈，多谢道友。¤Hahaha, thank you fellow daoist.
在下还要去岛上的小店看看有没有其它适用的东西，就先走一步了。¤I also need to go to the small store on the island to see if there are any other suitable things. I'll take my leave for now.
出海的时间长了，身上的补给品难免会不够用，我也是慕名而来，想看看能不能用我不需要的妖兽材料交易到一些有用的东西。¤After being at sea for a long time, it's inevitable that the supplies on my person will not be enough. I also came here out of curiosity, hoping to see if I can trade some of the spirit beast materials I don't need for something useful.
道友可是前来参与入门测试的？{w}{w=0.5}¤Hello fellow daoist, are you here to participate in the entry test?{w}{w=0.5}
如此，一炷香内道友护住自身，不溃败于我的攻势之下便可。¤In this way, as long as fellow daoist can protect oneself within the time it takes for one incense stick to burn, one will not be defeated by my attacks.
“此番值守还真是风平浪静，回去复命吧。”¤This duty was really uneventful. Go back and report.
你谨慎的地此地值守，并没有遇到什么可疑之人。¤You stand guard here carefully, and have not encountered any suspicious person.
此番值守还真是风平浪静，回去复命吧。¤This mission has been uneventful. Go back and report.
你谨慎地在此地址值守，前方一名门内弟子向你走来，你们互相点头示意。¤You cautiously guard this address, and a disciple from the gate walks towards you. You nod at each other in acknowledgement.
你谨慎地在此地值守，似乎有一道隐晦的气息在旁潜伏。¤You are cautiously standing guard here, as if there is a hidden breath lurking nearby.
你谨慎的在此地值守，风平浪静并没有遇到什么人。¤You are cautious and on guard here, but there have been no encounters with anyone in this calm and peaceful place.
{xiaozi}看招！！¤{xiaozi}, watch my move!!
你谨慎的在此地值守，并没有遇到什么可疑之人。¤You carefully stand guard here, and have not encountered any suspicious individuals.
你谨慎地在此地值守，突然间前方一道黑影向你扑来。¤You stand guard here carefully, when suddenly a black figure pounces towards you from the front.
妖兽？\n¤Spirit beast?
就这两下子？¤Just these two moves?
哎，不打了不打了，累死老子了。¤Ah, stop fighting, stop fighting. I'm exhausted.
我叫{FirstName}{LastName}，是刚入门的外门弟子。¤My name is {FirstName}{LastName}, and I am a new outer disciple.
还有我们离火门弟子配属的道袍，你也拿着吧。¤Also, take this dao robe that belongs to our Fire Gate disciples.
这个，这个，哦，还有这个...¤This, this, oh, and this...
诶，明白，明白，来领取入门两件套嘛。你等着，我来找给你。¤Hey, I understand, I understand. You're here to receive the beginner's two-piece set, right? Wait a moment, I'll go find it for you.
嗯...{FirstName}{shidi}，我猜你一定是来领取入门两件套的吧，你等着，让我找找。¤Well...{FirstName} {shidi}, I assume you're here to receive your beginner's set, just wait a moment and let me look for it.
{shixiong}，今日来神兵阁有什么事么？{w}{w=0.5}¤{shixiong}, do you have any business at the Divine Warrior Pavilion today? {w}{w=0.5}
你问我蛇妖的位置？我想想....似乎是在天魔眼的{color=#d0380a}东{/color}面吧...¤Do you ask me for the location of the serpent demon? Let me think... I believe it is to the {color=#d0380a}east{/color} of the Heavenly Devil's Eye...
师兄，我是来领取...¤Senior Brother, I am here to collect...
听说这天魔眼中还有一只修为极高的蛇妖，普通的筑基期修士都不是它的对手。¤I heard that there is an extremely high-level snake demon inside this Heavenly Devil's Eye. Even ordinary Foundation Establishment cultivators are no match for it.
（低声）别怪师兄没提醒一句啊，穿上这个你可能会更热...¤(Whispering) Don't blame Senior Brother for not reminding you, but you might feel hotter after putting this on...
哟，又有新面孔来了？¤Hey, there's a new face here?
{shidi}，这三把符器，你自己挑选一把吧。¤{shidi}, you can choose one of these three runic weapons for yourself.
{FirstName}{shidi}，这三把符器，你自己挑选一把吧。¤{FirstName}{shidi}, you can choose one of these three runic weapons for yourself.
诶？{shixiong}，你不会也对那蛇妖感兴趣吧！？¤Hey {shixiong}, you're not also interested in that snake demon, are you!?
这间商铺出售的似乎都是些{$dian}，你决定...？¤The items for sale in this shop all seem to be {$dian}. What will you decide...?
当然，只要价格合适，我们商会都能吃得下。¤Of course, as long as the price is right, our trading association can consume it.
道友有所不知，这价格也不是我私下定的，而是由商会根据最近的海况统一制定。¤Fellow Daoist, you might not know this, but the price was not set by me privately. Instead, it was determined by the business association based on recent sea conditions.
不过若是你能拿出我们商会中也比较稀缺的资源，那我们自然也愿意出更高的价格来收购。¤However, if you can provide us with relatively scarce resources within our trading company, we are naturally willing to offer a higher price for acquisition.
你眼前的是一间用大块岩石简单搭建出来的临时商铺，掌柜正悠闲地坐在里面。¤In front of you is a temporary shop built simply with large rocks. The shopkeeper is sitting inside leisurely.
不错，不错。这些灵石现在是你的了。¤Not bad, not bad. These spirit stones are now yours.
这位道友，看看有什么需要的？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow Daoist, is there anything you need?
此生有你这样的徒弟，无论如何，我都为你感到骄傲。¤In this life, having a disciple like you, no matter what, I am proud of you.
放心吧魏老，我想我对自己有十足的信心。¤Don't worry, Old Wei. I have complete confidence in myself.
哎...我明白你的心意...¤Ah... I understand your intentions...
唠叨了这么多年的魏老，此刻却沉默了。他望向你的眼神复杂万分。¤After years of rambling, old Wei fell silent. His gaze towards you was filled with complex emotions.
你和轩儿一样，都走到了这最后的一步。无论如何，我都为你感到骄傲。¤Like Xuan'er, you have reached this final step. In any case, I am proud of you.
{xiaozi}，接下来的困难，你只能独自面对了。渡劫凶险异常，你一定要保护好自己，要慎之又慎！¤{xiaozi}, the upcoming difficulties can only be faced by you alone. The tribulation is extremely perilous, so you must take great care to protect yourself!
这么多年，我早就已经放弃这个念想了...¤So many years, I have long given up this idea...
哎...转眼便过去这么多年，当时那个连吐纳心法都练不好的{xiaozi}，如今却要准备飞升了。¤Ah... so many years have passed in the blink of an eye, the {xiaozi} who couldn't even practice the art of tuana back then is now preparing for ascension.
{xiaozi}，千万别勉强自己，渡劫绝非儿戏，少几分灵气，也许就是身死道消。¤{xiaozi}, don't force yourself. Tribulation is no child's play and lacking a bit of divergent spirit may result in one's death.
你盘腿坐下，闭目垂帘，调息静心，那熟悉的动作，熟悉的身影，\r\n与初入仙途时别无二致，但你知道，沧海桑田，早已是天壤之别。¤You sit cross-legged, close your eyes and adjust your breath, calming your mind. The familiar movements and figure are just like when you first embarked on your journey to immortality, but you know that time has passed and things have changed drastically.
当年你师兄渡劫时，我便能察觉到，施展这秘术对他有不小的影响。¤Back when your senior brother underwent tribulation, I could sense that using this secret art had a significant impact on him.
若你没有十足的把握，我是不会轻易施展那秘术的。¤If you don't have full confidence, I won't easily use that secret art.
此生...有你这样的徒弟，无论如何，我都为你感到骄傲......¤In this life...having a disciple like you, no matter what, I am proud of you...
所以若你没有十足的把握，我是不会轻易施展那秘术的。¤So if you're not completely confident, I won't easily use that secret arts.
多少化神大能都倒在了飞升这一步，你可不要掉以轻心了。¤Many deity transformations have failed at this crucial step of ascension, so don't take it lightly.
这世上有几人能和你一样走到这一步？作为你的师傅，无论如何，我都为你感到骄傲。¤How many people in this world can reach this step like you? As your master, no matter what, I am proud of you.
若非魏老当年将我领入门，我又哪有今日。放心吧，我很快便会帮您重塑肉身的！¤If it weren't for Old Wei taking me under his wing back then, I wouldn't be where I am today. Don't worry, I'll quickly help you rebuild your physical body!
如果渡劫时遇到任何意外，我都会主动停下秘术，到时你可切勿因此分心。¤If any unexpected events occur during the tribulation, I will voluntarily stop using secret arts. Please do not get distracted by this at that time.
魏老，我还得再斟酌一下。¤Old Wei, I still need to think it over.
若非魏老当年将我领入门，我又哪有今日。可惜...我还没能找到帮您重塑肉身的方法。¤If not for Old Wei taking me under his wing, I wouldn't be where I am today. Unfortunately... I haven't been able to find a way to help you rebuild your physical body.
此生...有你这样的徒弟，无论如何，我都为你感到骄傲。¤In this life... having a disciple like you, no matter what, I am proud of you.
你运功调息，最后一次缜密回顾着已感悟的渡劫秘术，准备渡劫......¤You adjust your breath and carefully review the secret arts of tribulation that you have already enlightened to. You are preparing to go through the tribulation one last time...
此时，随着麒麟血的渗透，你感觉到血脉深处的血脉之力正在觉醒与之相应。那是一种上古莽荒力量，你全身散发出旺盛的气血与麒麟之血相融合。¤At this moment, as the blood of the qilin seeps into your body, you can feel the emergence of the lifeforce deep within your veins. It is an ancient and wild power, as your body emits a vigorous blend of your own blood and the blood of the qilin.
不论如何，还是多谢了。¤Regardless, thank you very much.
道友，你这魔神蛊已经发作，你还是先照顾好自己吧。¤Fellow Daoist, your devil god gu has already acted up. You should take care of yourself first.
刚刚大殿动静不小，我师兄弟和我师父如何？¤Earlier there was quite a commotion in the main hall. How are my senior brothers and my master doing?
此时，随着麒麟血的渗透，你感觉到血脉深处的龙族之力正在觉醒与之相应。你背后印有龙纹显现。¤At this moment, as the blood of the Kirin permeates, you feel the power of the dragon clan awakening within your deep bloodline. The dragonvein is manifested on your back.
唉，先出去和钟师兄回合吧。¤Ah, let's go outside and spar with Senior Brother Zhong for a bit.
说完，魔神蛊的反噬和之前与你交手的伤势一同爆发，轩岚诺已经失去了气息。¤After speaking, the recoil of the Devil God Gu and the injuries from their previous battle erupted simultaneously, causing Xuan Lannuo to lose consciousness.
道友且忍住，灵纹铭刻在掌心必会有些痛楚。¤Fellow Daoist, please bear with the pain as the spirit inscription will be etched onto your palm.
咳~师傅，这振兴玄古门终归是场梦啊。¤*Cough* Master, this revival of the Profound Ancient Sect is ultimately just a dream.
此时，随着麒麟血的渗透，你感觉到血脉深处的血脉之力正在觉醒与之相应。你全身散发出旺盛的气血与麒麟之血相融合。¤At this moment, as the blood of the qilin seeped in, you felt the power within your bloodline awakening in response. Your whole body emitted a strong lifeforce as it merged with the blood of the qilin.
我本就不支持重启炼妖散的研究，这条路若不是天赋异禀，常人如何能承受神兽血脉之力？¤I never supported the resurrection of the research on demon refining powder. If you do not possess extraordinary talents, how could an ordinary person withstand the power of a divine beast's bloodline?
玄骨！！！¤Mystic bone!!!
自事自知，我已时日无多也没什么好顾忌的了。¤Self-awareness, I have no much time left and nothing much to worry about.
那这血脉里的全部灵力就不要浪费了。¤Don't waste all the spiritual energy in this bloodline.
灵纹？你这是以自身为“器胚”强化己身？¤Spirit Marks? Are you using your own body as the vessel to strengthen yourself?
嗯？好旺盛的气血，道友竟是上古神魔遗族，那你便能承受这麟血的妖力了。¤Hmm? Such vigorous lifeforce, fellow daoist turned out to be a descendant of the ancient gods and demons. You should be able to withstand the demonic power of this Qilin's blood then.
也对，可惜了。¤Yeah, what a pity.
噗！！¤Puff!!
这血脉里的全部灵力就不要浪费了。¤Do not waste all the spiritual energy in this bloodline.
什么！！！¤What!!!
此时我身无长物，就这麒麟血就当作道友帮我的回报。¤At this moment, I have nothing to offer in return, so please consider this Kirin blood as a gesture of goodwill, fellow daoist.
说罢天空中金色的血液向你掌心飞来，你的手掌一阵刺痛。¤After speaking, golden blood flew towards your palm from the sky, causing a sharp pain in your hand.
道友，以我们这些凡夫俗子的体格很难发挥全力，可惜了。¤Fellow daoist, it's a pity that we ordinary beings have limited physical capabilities and cannot fully exert our power.
没看出来，道友竟是身怀龙族血脉之人，真的很羡慕你。¤I didn't expect it, fellow daoist, but you're actually someone with a dragon bloodline. I'm truly envious.
不愧是离火门的高徒一点就通。我时间不多了，你要接受我这妖人最后的作品么？¤As expected of a talented disciple from the Fire Gate Sect. I don't have much time left, do you want to accept my final work as a demonic being?
但是，以精血铭刻灵纹在身上习得一些妖兽神通却有可能。¤However, it's possible to learn some spirit beast divine skills by inscribing spirit patterns on the body with blood.
呵，玄骨以为这魔神蛊就能完全控制我？这麒麟血我必不能让他如愿以偿。¤Hmph, Xuan Bone thinks this Devil God Gu can control me completely? I cannot let him have his way with my Qilin Blood.
嗯？好旺盛的气血，道友应该也是上古遗族之后，那你必能承受这麟血的全部妖力了。¤Mmm? Such strong lifeforce. Fellow Daoist must also be a descendant of the ancient tribes. You should be able to withstand the full demonic power of this Qilin blood.
此时，随着麒麟血的渗透，你感觉到些许灵力散溢于空中。¤At this moment, as the Kirin blood seeps in, you feel a little bit of spiritual power overflowing in the air.
道友是心有顾忌么。¤Fellow daoist, are you scared in mind?
但此次我与冲虚长老之事定下后，星宫那边已是再次邀请各大家族，若是相同的状况再上演一次，乃至...¤After finalizing things with Elder Chong Xu, Star Palace has once again invited various major clans. If the same situation were to occur again, even...
总之，若是可以还请道友代沐雪阻止心儿，莫要让她闯下大祸。¤In any case, if possible, fellow daoist, please help to stop Xin'er and prevent her from causing a huge disaster.
既然林姑娘心意已决，那我也就不再多说什么了。¤Since Miss Lin has made up her mind, I won't say anything more.
你将林沐心的计划向林沐雪娓娓道来，从她逃离林府一直到之后的行动，林沐雪也是安静的听着，直到你说完。¤You narrate Lin Muxin's plan to Lin Muxue, explaining everything from her escape from Lin House to their subsequent actions. Lin Muxue listens quietly until you finish.
林沐雪看到你的出现先是有些戒备，似乎是想起前日于此有一面之缘，这才放松下来。¤When Lin Muxue saw you appear, she was initially wary, seemingly recalling a previous encounter here. However, she relaxed after recognizing you.
此中矛盾若想解决，总要有人挺身而出。冲虚前辈既愿退让，沐雪自然也是愿为林家做出贡献。劳{FirstName}{daoyou}挂心，沐雪不胜感激。¤If we want to resolve the contradiction here, there must be someone who steps forward. Since Senior Chongxu is willing to step back, Mu Xue is naturally willing to contribute to the Lin Family. Thank you for your concern, {FirstName}{daoyou}, Mu Xue is very grateful.
啊，抱歉，见道友愿意听，沐雪竟自顾自地啰嗦了这么多，耽误道友太多时间，还请见谅。¤Ah, sorry. Fellow Daoist is willing to listen so Mu Xue blabbered on for so long on her own. It has delayed Fellow Daoist's time, please forgive me.
{FirstName}道友还请稍安勿躁，短则一日，长则半月，必然会解除封城。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, please wait patiently and do not be anxious. The city's closure will be lifted in a short period of one day or a long period of half a month. It is certain that it will be lifted.
即便父亲不在乎，星宫的那位就不一样了。据父亲所言，宫主不知何故，一直{color=#d0380a}非常在乎星宫的名声{/color}。¤Even if Father doesn't care, the master of Star Palace does. According to Father, for some reason, the palace master {color=#d0380a}is very concerned about the reputation of Star Palace{/color}.
期间若是客栈有何怠慢，道友只需找我即可。¤If there are any shortcomings at the inn during your stay, fellow daoist, simply come to me.
{FirstName}道友，请问有事么？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, may I ask if there is anything you need?
不太清楚，还请林姑娘解惑。¤I'm not quite clear on this, so I request Lin girl's help to clear things up.
而星宫中其他分支，一是代表星辰尊者原家族血脉的宫主一系，他们向来不会为难林家；其二便是后来加入星宫的供奉之后，其中以星宫大长老为首，近百年来一直对林家执掌天星城收入大权不满，常有摩擦。¤And among the other branches of Star Palace, one is the main branch representing the bloodline of the Starsoul Elder's original family, and they have never troubled Lin family. The second consists of the guests who later joined Star Palace, with the star palace grand elder at the forefront. They have been dissatisfied with the Lin family's control over Starsky City for nearly a hundred years and there have been frequent frictions.
即便父亲不在乎，星宫的那位就不一样了。据父亲所言，宫主不知何故，一直非常在乎星宫的名声。¤Even if Father didn't care, that person from Star Palace is different. According to Father, the Palace Master, for some unknown reason, has always been very concerned about the reputation of Star Palace.
那道友也应该知道诸位长老也不过是为家族考虑而用心良苦，只是此前冲虚前辈指名要与心儿结为道侣，才有了这出闹剧。现下前辈愿意转而与我结为道侣，以稳固两系关系，自是再好不过。¤That fellow daoist should know that the elders are also considering the family's interests with good intentions. It was only because Senior Chongxu had named Little Xin as his Dao companion that this farce occurred. Now that Senior is willing to become my Dao companion to solidify the relationship between our two factions, it is undoubtedly the best result.
更何况，心儿的方法无非就是想办法破坏此次结侣典礼，前日便已是因心儿临时逃离而导致星宫与林家当着宁州各家族颜面大损。¤Moreover, Little Xin's method is simply to find a way to sabotage the marriage ceremony, which already caused the Star Palace and Lin Family to lose face in front of the various clans of Ningzhou due to Little Xin's sudden escape the other day.
而这冲虚散人便是星宫大长老座下弟子。¤And this hermit Chong Xu is a disciple under the Star Palace grand elder.
所以若是追究起来，只怕连宫主与父亲的关系都会出现裂痕，大长老那边若是有心...¤So if we were to investigate, it's likely that even the relationship between the palace master and father would have cracks, and if the grand elder had intentions...
道友可知林家与星宫的关系？¤Fellow daoist, do you know the relationship between the Lin family and the Star Palace?
道友，请问有事么？¤Fellow Daoist, may I ask if there is something you need?
多谢{FirstName}道友愿意帮助心儿，但家父一直宠爱心儿，她对此中原委料想是不甚清楚。¤Thank you {FirstName} fellow daoist for helping Little Xin. However, my father has always doted on her and she may not fully understand the intricacies of the situation.
星宫乃是千余年前由大名鼎鼎的天星双尊所建，当时此二者都是化神期修为。其中广微仙子便是当代林家家主，所以名义上天星城是由林家与星宫共同管理，但实际上林家也不过是星宫中较为独立的分支。¤The Star Palace was built over a thousand years ago by the renowned Heavenly Star Twin Sages, both of whom had reached the Deity Transformation stage of cultivation. Among them, Fairy Guangwei is the current Lin Family Patriarch. Therefore, in name, Starsky City is jointly managed by the Lin Family and the Star Palace, but in reality, the Lin Family is only a relatively independent branch of the Star Palace.
那便拜托{FirstName}道友帮忙安抚心儿一番，沐雪感激不尽。¤Then I will trouble fellow daoist {FirstName} to help soothe little xin, Mu Xue is deeply grateful.
现下府内气氛紧张，{FirstName}道友还是不要在此闲逛为好，若是撞上二长老，免不得对你恶语相向。¤Currently, the atmosphere in the government is tense. Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, it is best not to loiter here. If you encounter Elder Two, they may end up exchanging harsh words with you.
林沐雪看见你出现在她身前，似乎是有些惊讶，却并没有过问太多的意思。¤Lin Muxue saw you appear in front of her and seemed a bit surprised, but she didn't inquire too much about it.
所以林家长老也不过是为家族考虑而用心良苦，只是此前冲虚前辈指名要与心儿结为道侣，才有了这出闹剧。现下前辈愿意转而与我结为道侣，以稳固两系关系，自是再好不过。¤Therefore, the Lin family elder only had good intentions for the family when he arranged for this. It was just the previous senior, Chong Xu, who specifically named Little Xin as his Dao companion, that caused this farce to happen. Now that he is willing to become Dao companions with me instead, in order to strengthen the relationship between our two sects, it could not be any better.
你看到一{SayStcVal=929}，正在袭击宗门弟子。¤You see a member of the clan attacking disciples of the clan. {SayStcVal=929}
只见她长舒一口气。¤I saw her take a deep breath.
弟子知错，多谢长老出手相救。¤Disciple acknowledges his mistake, thank you Elder for coming to his rescue.
炼器之道，需脚踏实地切记不可冒进，不然下一次就没有我帮你啦。¤The way of refining requires one to be down-to-earth and cautious, or else the next time I won't be able to help you.
“是，长老”台下众弟子应和道。¤Yes, Elder, the disciples below the platform echoed.
好了，本次炼器大会到此为止，你们细细体会个中细节正确在炼器之道上走的更远。¤Alright, this weapon making assembly is now over. Take note of the details and strive to walk further in the refining path.
说罢，你便起火热炉，火焰如你身体的延续一般如臂使指，一件件材料迅速的融化开来凝聚成器胚。¤After speaking, you lit the hot furnace. Flames were like an extension of your body, and you used them effortlessly to melt down and condense the materials into the embryo of a tool.
器胚已经定型，你手恰法诀以灵力铭刻灵纹，一柄上品法宝便出炉了。¤The artifact has already taken shape. Use your hand to cast the spell and imbue the spirit with the spirit lines. A top-grade artifact is then forged.
台下弟子多数还在融化材料，不过他们其中有人得心应手也有的手忙脚乱。¤Most of the disciples below the stage are still melting materials, but some of them are skilled while others are struggling.
你单手一掐法诀，帮她控制住了器胚中的能量。¤You use one hand to pinch a spell, helping her control the energy within the spirit embryo.
{shixiong}要开始炼器大会么？¤Is {shixiong} going to start refining weapons in the Weapon Making Assembly?
炼器之道，怎可冒进？器毁之时自己身死也就罢了，殃及同门何其罪过。¤The path of refining cannot be rushed. If one's equipment is destroyed, they may only lose their own life, but causing harm to fellow disciples would be a great sin.
你看到一名弟子刚刚完成了器胚，但她此时满头大汗，材料融化而成的器胚中灵力几近失控，显然是她私自修改了配方想要炼制法宝但自己又不能控制住器胚的灵力。¤You see a disciple who has just completed an artifact, but at this moment, she is sweating profusely, and the spiritual power within the artifact created from the melted materials is nearly out of control. Evidently, she secretly modified the recipe in an attempt to refine a more powerful artifact, but she cannot control the spiritual power within the artifact.
台下弟子皆拱手拜谢，之后有宗门长老收取了你们炼制的法宝。¤The disciples below all bowed and thanked, then the elder of the clan collected the artifacts that you had refined.
嗯，品相不错¤Hmm, the quality is not bad
一会我会在台上炼制法宝做示范，你们跟着我一步步来炼制法器、符器，宗门资源来之不易，切记不要出了差错。明白么？¤Later, I will demonstrate the process of refining artifacts on stage. Follow my instructions step by step to refine magic tools and runic weapons. The clan's resources are hard to come by, so be sure not to make any mistakes. Do you understand?
此时成器不过是时间问题，你便开始留心台下弟子的情况。¤At this point, it's only a matter of time before you become a master. You begin to pay attention to the situation of the disciples below the stage.
继续吧。¤Continue.
这数十年来宁州倒是风平浪静，没有再发生什么太大事端。只可惜当年...¤For the past few decades, Ningzhou has been peaceful without any major incidents. Unfortunately, in the past...
我派这一代的弟子中，除了青麟便再找不出几个好一点的苗子了。¤Among the disciples of my generation, except for Qing Lin, there are hardly any good seedlings to be found.
真是气煞老夫！！！¤You're really infuriating me!!!
晚辈想起还有些事情未处理完，先行告辞了。¤The junior remembers that there are still some unfinished matters, so I will say goodbye first.
你们看着二长老一会儿踱步一会儿叹气，一会儿录玉简一会儿放信鸽，忙活了大半天总算坐在太师椅上。¤As you watch the Second Elder pacing and sighing, taking breaks to transcribe on jade slips and release carrier pigeons, he finally settles down onto the Grand Minister's chair after a busy half a day.
家丑不可外扬，家丑不可外扬啊！¤Family secrets must not be exposed, family secrets must not be exposed!
倪旭欣被吓得不敢吱声，轻轻地捅了捅你耳语道¤Ni Xuxin was so frightened that he didn't dare to make a sound. He gently poked you and whispered,
你虽好奇，但也不便掺和倪家的家事，找了个借口回到了客房。¤Although you were curious, it wouldn't be appropriate to meddle in the affairs of the Ni family, so you found an excuse to return to the guest room.
除非我爹在外面有别的道侣......不然我想应该是没有的。¤Unless my father has other dao companions outside... Otherwise, I think there should be none.
怎么突然打听起戮仙剑的消息了？¤Why suddenly inquiring about the news of the Immortal Executing Sword?
我看我们要不还是先溜吧......¤I think we should just slip away for now...
你们一五一十地把整个调查过程说给了二长老，眼看着他的脸色从青到紫又从紫到黑。¤You explained the whole investigation process in detail to the Second Elder, who watched his face turn from pale to purple and then to black.
居然做出谋害大哥这种大逆不道的事情！真是混账东西！¤I can't believe you would do something as treacherous as plotting against our eldest brother! You are truly a despicable person!
敢问长老到底发生了何事？¤May I ask, elder, what exactly happened?
你俩对视无言，只觉大难临头恨不得挖个地洞赶快跑掉。¤You two look at each other in silence, feeling as if a great calamity has befallen and wishing to dig a hole and run away quickly.
你还有兄长吗？¤Do you still have an older brother?
单击{color=#d0380a}战前准备{/color}\r可以调整装备、服用丹药、更改功法与神通的搭配。\n¤Click on {color=#d0380a}Combat Preparation{/color} to adjust equipment, take elixirs, and change the combination of techniques and abilities. \n
嗯，能长到这般体型，就算还未结成妖丹，也不是普通凡人能对付的了的。我观这巨蟒应该与你修为相当，拿来给你练手倒是刚好合适。¤Well, even if it hasn't formed its demon pill yet, with its current size, it's not something an ordinary person can handle. I believe this giant python is on par with your cultivation level, so it's suitable for you to use as practice.
嗯？那草里盘着的是...好大的一条蟒蛇！¤Hmm? The one coiled up in the grass is...a really large python!
整理一下装备，好好回忆回忆老夫之前教的神通法诀，实战无儿戏，做好万全准备，{xiaozi}当心点！¤Organize your equipment, reminisce about the magical techniques I taught you before, there's no room for error in actual combat, be fully prepared, be careful, little one!
覆海大圣来到你们面前。¤The Overwhelming Sea Saint has arrived before you.
你从闭关之地出来，看到龙宫大阵全力运转，龙墓之中源源不断的迸发出纯粹的生机一股先天仙灵之气在其中波动，敖玄面色凝重地立于半空之中的阵眼位置主持阵法。¤You come out from the place of cultivation and see the Dragon Palace's formation in full operation. Pure vitality constantly bursts out from the dragon tomb, and the aura of pre-heavenly fairy spirit fluctuates within it. Ao Xuan stands solemnly in the center of the formation, overseeing its progress.
浪方老贼毙于你手，鲲族余孽现在是一盘散沙。按理说今日不会有人前来捣乱。¤The old thief, Lang Fang, was killed by your hands, and the remnants of the Kun clan are now scattered. In theory, no one should come to cause trouble today.
你去吧，最近龙墓会封闭，如非灭族大事不要来打扰我。¤You may go, but recently the Dragon Tomb has been sealed. Unless there is an impending calamity for the Demonic tribe, do not disturb me.
九幽、浪方皆毙于你手，现在的和平哪里是他们怕了我龙族，他们是给你面子才对。¤Nine Ghosts and Lang Fang were both killed by you, and now the peace is only because they fear my Dragon Clan. They are only showing you face.
你去收拾了那条小鱼吧，最近龙墓会封闭，如非灭族大事不要来打扰我。¤You go and take care of that little fish. The Dragon Tomb has been closed recently. Don't come and disturb me unless it's a matter of the extinction of the tribe.
你小子很不错，资质比九玄那小子都好。¤You're pretty good, your aptitude is even better than that kid from Jiuxuan.
说罢，你将自己的气息放开，一股恐怖的化神威压笼罩了龙宫附近的海域，一时间风平浪静，无人干扰。¤After finishing his words, you released your aura, enveloping the Dragon Palace and its nearby sea with a terrifying deity transformation might suppression. For a moment, the winds calmed and the waves stilled, uninterrupted by anyone.
唉，事关家父做儿子的总归是放心不下。不过，有你这位“威名赫赫”的高手陪我确实是很令人安心呢。¤Alas, as a son, I can never be at ease when it comes to my father's affairs. However, having a skilled and renowned expert like you by my side definitely brings a sense of comfort.
恭喜父亲。¤Congratulations, Father.
说罢覆海大圣化作一道遁光没入龙宫深处，敖玄上来对你道谢。¤After speaking, the Overwhelming Sea Saint transformed into a stream of light and disappeared into the depths of the Dragon Palace. Ao Xuan came up and thanked you.
这是我个人的收藏，请收下以表谢意。¤This is my personal collection, please accept it as a token of gratitude.
多谢老祖相助。¤Thank you, Senior Ancestor, for your help.
敖玄道友不必如此紧张。龙族威名远扬，龙宫更是依托大阵固若金汤哪有宵小之辈赶来进犯。¤Ao Xuan fellow daoist, there's no need to be so tense. The Dragon Clan's reputation spreads far and wide, and the Dragon Palace is protected by a powerful array. How could any small fry dare to invade it?
你是担心剩下两位？¤Are you worried about the remaining two?
说是漫长其实不过几息之间。¤It's said to be a long time, but it's actually just a few breaths.
“吼~~”浪方连翻轰击大阵。¤Roar~~ Lang Fang repeatedly attacked the large formation with flips.
说完覆海大圣对你抱拳作揖。¤After speaking, the Overwhelming Sea Saint bowed to you with clasped hands.
多谢道友，我长年闭关，道友为我龙宫奔波操劳此次又是为我护法。¤Thank you, fellow daoist. I have been cultivating in seclusion for a long time. Fellow daoist has been busy running around for my Dragon Palace, and this time you are also protecting the law for me.
此时异变突发，龙脉之中的生机一扫而空陷入了死机，但转瞬间一股强大的化神气息迸发而出。¤At this moment, a sudden change occurred and all vitality within the dragon veins was depleted, causing them to fall into a state of stagnation. However, in the blink of an eye, a powerful deity transformation energy burst forth.
水面之上巨眼露出嘲讽的看着发话的敖玄，不过他很快就看到你了他瞳孔骤缩，一股化神期的神识笼罩着你，似是在思考什么。¤On the surface of the water, a giant eye appeared and looked mockingly at Xaō Xuán, who spoke up. However, he soon noticed you and his pupils suddenly contracted. A soul sense of deity transformation stage enveloped you as if he were contemplating something.
你平静的与这海中巨兽对峙，对方似是察觉了什么不敢贸然出手。\n¤You calmly confront the sea monster, and it seems to have sensed something and dare not strike rashly.
我先回大殿了，道友若是有事可以来找我。¤I will return to the main hall first. Fellow Daoist, if you have any matters, you can come find me.
嗯，辛苦你了。¤Well, thank you for your hard work.
唉，事关家父做儿子的总归是放心不下。不过，有你这位大高手陪我确实是很令人安心呢，哈哈哈。¤Ah, as a son, I am always worried about my father. However, having a great expert like you accompany me does make me feel at ease, haha.
大圣还请自便。¤Great Sage, please do as you wish.
你莫要调笑我啦。¤Don't make fun of me.
正想挑战九幽大圣，择日不如撞日，咱们比划比划？¤Just thinking of challenging the Nine Underworld Saints. Why not pick a day instead of waiting? Shall we spar?
远处一股庞大的妖气飞快的靠近，在龙宫之外停下。你与敖玄于半空中与之对峙。你清晰的看到水面之下舞动的巨型触手，一对硕大的眼睛露出水面看着你们。¤A massive demonic energy approached swiftly from afar, stopping outside the Dragon Palace. You and Ao Xuan faced it in mid-air. You could clearly see the gigantic tentacles writhing beneath the water's surface, while a pair of large eyes gazed at you from above the water.
这次多谢道友了，以后若是有什么需要我龙宫相助的，我们必鼎力相助。¤Thank you fellow daoist for your help this time. If there is anything in the future that requires the assistance of our dragon palace, we will definitely offer our full support.
或是紧张或是愤怒，敖玄把讨教二字咬的极重。¤Whether it was nervousness or anger, Ao Xuan clenched the phrase seeking guidance tightly between his teeth.
敖玄祭出九龙玺，你将灵力也注入其中，阵法还算是稳定下来。¤Ao Xuan invoked the Nine Dragons Seal, and you also infused your spiritual power into it. The array was stabilized as a result.
一时间风平浪静，仅有来自龙宫的灵气波动一起一伏。¤For a moment the wind and waves were calm, with only the fluctuations of spiritual energy coming from the Dragon Palace rising and falling.
远处一只巨大的鲲飞快的靠近，撞角撞击在龙宫的防御大阵的光幕上。光幕一阵明暗波动，不过一息之间就恢复正常了。不过你注意到敖玄脸色一白。¤A huge kun flew quickly towards them from afar, its horns colliding with the defensive barrier of the Dragon Palace. The barrier flickered for a brief moment, but quickly recovered. However, you noticed that Ao Xuan's face turned pale.
不行，以我的修为纵使有九龙玺也难以维持，来助我一臂之力。¤I can't do this alone, even with my cultivation. If only I had the Nine Dragons Seal, it would make things easier. Can you lend me a hand?
果然，这狗贼必不会放过今天的机会。¤Sure enough, this dog thief will not let go of today's opportunity.
“轰轰”，大阵外阵阵恐怖能量波动散开。不过很快就趋于平静了。\n¤A boom echoed out as terrifying energy waves emanated from the formation outside. However, it quickly returned to calmness.
来者可是九幽前辈？今日乃是我龙宫的大日子恕不接客，前辈若是有事还请回吧，他日家父必亲自上门讨教。¤Is the visitor Senior Jiuyou? Today is a big day for our Dragon Palace and we cannot receive guests. If Senior has any business, please come back another day. My father will personally come to visit and exchange knowledge with you in the future.
此次突破我损耗巨大，要闭关稳固境界。¤This breakthrough has caused me great loss. I need to cultivate and stabilize my realm through seclusion.
来了。¤Here it comes.
唉，事关家父做儿子的总归是放心不下。不过，有你这位高手陪我确实是很令人安心呢。¤Alas, as a son, I will always worry about my father's safety. However, with a master like you accompanying me, it is indeed very reassuring.
嗯。（看来这敖玄也不是完全放心今天的事。）¤Mhmm. (It seems that Ao Xuan is also not completely at ease with today's matter.)
不过我也没有太担心，浪方老贼都不是你对手这只章鱼今日又岂能造次。¤But I'm not too worried, Langfang old thief is not your match, how could this octopus make trouble today?
浪方老贼上次未分胜负，这次我们再来比划比划！¤The last time Langfang old thief and I didn't determine a winner, let's have another match!
随着覆海的突破，外围的观望的九幽也是退去，覆海大圣来到你们面前。¤With the overwhelming sea saint's breakthrough, the observing outsiders from the Jiuyou also retreated, and the overwhelming sea saint appeared before you.
说来就来，正主到了。¤Here it comes, the main character has arrived.
吞云海那位素来与世无争，但是那只章鱼就不一样了，家父正值关键之时，难免他不会动什么歪心思。¤The one who usually stays out of the world's affairs in Swallowing Cloud Sea, but the octopus is different. During this critical time, it's inevitable that he'll have some ulterior motives towards my father's situation.
我安排她在另一处祖地值守了。¤I arranged for her to stand watch in another ancestral land.
不过瘾，这老贼过了几招就走了。¤Not addictive, this old thief left after a few moves.
此时，龙脉之中的生机一扫而空陷入了死机，但转瞬间一股强大的化神气息迸发而出。¤At this moment, the vitality within the dragon veins vanished and fell into a state of stagnation. But in an instant, a powerful deity transformation energy burst forth.
这时，龙脉之中的生机一扫而空陷入了死机，但转瞬间一股强大的化神气息迸发而出。¤At this moment, the vitality within the dragon veins disappeared and fell into a deadlock, but in an instant a powerful deity transformation aura burst out.
无须言谢。¤No need to thank me.
我代师兄多谢白鹿真人愿来观礼。¤I thank Paragon White Deer on behalf of my senior brother for gracing us with your presence at the ceremony.
你的事，我自会相助。¤I will help you with your matters.
哦？白鹿真人和师兄是有何渊源么？¤Oh? Is there a connection between Paragon White Deer and Senior Brother?
前辈请先休息，我去通知师兄一声。¤Senior, please rest first. I'll go inform Senior Brother.
见过白鹿前辈，多谢前辈愿来观礼。¤I have seen senior White Deer, thank you senior for honoring us with your presence at the ceremony.
白帝的要求，我不会拒绝。¤I will not refuse the White Emperor's request.
{FirstName}供奉，这几日在府中过得可好？¤{FirstName}, as a guest elder, have you been doing well in the mansion these past few days?
又是新的一天，看来宁王暂时还没给你安排任务，你决定...¤Another day has begun, it seems that Ning King hasn't assigned you any quests yet, so you decide to...
府内一切都好，我很满意。¤Everything in the mansion is good, I am satisfied.
管事今日来找我，可是宁王给我安排了什么任务？¤Did the steward come to see me today because Ning King assigned me some quests?
府内的一切起居用品都无比奢华，你舒舒服服地休息了一整天，只觉得自己神清气爽。¤All the living essentials in the mansion are incredibly luxurious. You rested comfortably for a whole day and felt refreshed.
不错，{FirstName}供奉，还请随我来。¤Not bad, Guest Elder {FirstName}, please follow me.
几经周转，你终于来到了供奉的居所。逸风城本就以金碧二色为主，给人以堂皇大气之感，此处更是美轮美奂，极尽穷奢之能事。看来宁王暂时还没给你安排任务，你决定...¤After several twists and turns, you finally arrived at the residence of the Guest Elder. Yifeng City is known for its golden and jade colors, giving people a majestic and magnificent feeling. This place is even more magnificent and extravagant, showcasing the height of luxury. It seems that the Ning King has not yet assigned you any quests. You decide to...
前面那个，快出手拦住他！¤That one in front, quickly make a move to stop him!
杜老二急切的声音，让你意识到情况万分危急。而麻老九见状却笑了起来。¤The urgent voice of Old Du made you realize that the situation was extremely critical. But Old Ma Nine, upon seeing the situation, just laughed.
两位金丹期修士的威压，让你差点喘不过气来。¤The might suppression from the two cultivators in the golden core stage almost made it hard for you to breathe.
虽然禾山派无恶不作，但你好歹曾经也是禾山派的一员。究竟要不要趁此机会划清界限？你犹豫了起来。¤Although the Mt. Harvest Sect is notorious for their evil deeds, you were once a member of the sect. Should you take this opportunity to distance yourself from them? You hesitated.
算了算了，你走吧，别挡道。¤Never mind, you can go, don't block the way.
唉…算了算了，今天我们就当没见过吧。¤Ah... forget it, let's just pretend we didn't see each other today.
说罢，他便带着一众小弟转身离去。¤After speaking, he turned around and left with his group of lackeys.
桀桀桀，我当来了个什么帮手。臭{xiaozi}，识趣的话就赶紧让开。¤Hehehe, what kind of helper did I come across? Stinky kid, if you're smart, get out of the way now.
两股强大的气息正朝你迅速逼近，你还未来得及躲闪，他们便发现了你的身影。¤Two powerful auras were rapidly approaching you, and before you could even dodge, they had already spotted your figure.
我来会会你。¤I'll come and meet you.
杜兄此前待我不薄，就算你已是金丹期，我也不能坐视不理。¤Duke Du has been kind to me in the past. Even though you have reached the Golden Core stage, I cannot ignore this matter.
{xiaozi}，现在沂山派也散了，你不会真要得罪我们禾山派吧？¤{xiaozi}, now that the Mt. Yi Sect has disbanded, you wouldn't really want to offend our Mt. Harvest Sect, would you?
见曾经的小弟恰好在此，麻老九便吩咐了起来。¤Seeing his former little brother right here, Old Ma Nine gave out some orders.
既然沂山派已不复存在，我自然没有出手的理由。¤Since Mt. Yi Sect no longer exists, I naturally have no reason to make a move.
他所释放出的威压，赫然已是金丹水准，这让你的选择更加艰难了起来。¤The might suppression he released was already at the level of a golden core, making your choice even more difficult.
原来是{FirstName}{xiongdi}，快帮忙拦住他！¤Originally, it's {FirstName}{xiongdi}, hurry and stop him!
这…实不相瞒，当初你教我的那些功法，我也都参悟过，但这抓人练功，不是各大势力明令禁止之事嘛？¤To be honest, the techniques you taught me before, I have also understood them all. But capturing people to practice techniques is something that all major powers forbid, right?
你现在当好心人，桀桀，等以后寿元到了修为却不够的时候，看有没有好心人来帮你。¤You're acting like a kind person now. Hehe, we'll see if any kind person will help you when your lifespan is up and your cultivation is not enough.
桀桀桀，区区一个筑基修士，还真以为找到帮手了？我们上。¤Hehehe, a mere foundation building cultivator actually thinks they've found help? Let's go.
虽然并不是什么值钱物件，不过对于筑基境界而言，这些东西也算是可堪一用了。¤Although they are not valuable objects, they can still be useful for the foundation building realm.
但…难道就不能靠刻苦修炼觅得长生？为何一定要加害于无辜之人呢？¤But... can't eternal life be attained through diligent cultivation? Why must we harm innocent people?
“乖乖束手就擒，便少让你吃些苦头，如何？”¤Will you obediently surrender and spare yourself from any further trouble?
杜兄，我要怎么帮你？¤Brother Du, how can I help you?
我早已退出禾山派，此事与我已无瓜葛。¤I have long withdrawn from the Mt. Harvest faction, and this matter has nothing to do with me.
你没有理会，转过身继续自己的旅程。¤You didn't pay attention and turned around to continue your journey.
你略施神通干扰一二，颜老怪一行人便抓住机会追了上来，将杜老二团团围住。¤You use your divine skill to interfere a little, allowing Geezer Yan and his group to seize the opportunity to catch up and surround Old Du.
你退至一旁，他们一行人也没有停留，继续追杜老二去了。¤You stepped aside and they didn't stop, continuing to pursue Old Du.
不远处，一群禾山派修士正追着一人向你跑来。那人伤势极重，脸色惨白，眼看便要殒命于此。¤Not far away, a group of cultivators from Mt. Harvest are chasing after a person towards you. The person is severely injured, with a pale face, and is on the brink of death.
桀桀桀，这才像话！¤Hehehe, now we're talking!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}！快来助我一臂之力！¤{FirstName} brothers! Come and lend me a hand!
说罢，他便转身加入到了围攻杜老二的队伍中。¤After speaking, he turned around and joined the team that was besieging old du.
“省省吧，你当真觉得能跑掉？”¤Spare yourself the trouble, do you really think you can escape?
{xiongdi}这次出力不少，这些就归你了。¤Brother, you've put in a lot of effort this time. These are all yours.
杜老二急切的声音，让你意识到情况万分危急。而麻老九见状也威胁了起来。¤The urgent tone of Old Du's voice makes you realize the situation is extremely critical. And Old Ma also started making threats upon seeing the situation.
事成之后，麻老九将杜老二浑身上下搜罗了一道，向你扔了一个储物袋过来。¤After the matter was settled, Old Ma searched every inch of Old Du's body and threw a storage pouch at you.
你没有说话，只是摇了摇头。¤You didn't say anything, you just shook your head.
桀桀桀，不愿意说就算了。¤Hehe, if you don't want to speak then forget it.
定睛一看，原来是禾山派众人正在追杀杜老二。¤Taking a closer look, it turned out that the group from Mt. Harvest were chasing after Old Du.
哼，区区一个筑基修士，还真以为找到帮手了？我们上。¤Hmph, just a cultivator in foundation building. Do you really think you've found some help? Let's attack.
我牵制住麻老九，你将其他人对付了，再来跟我一起对付他。¤I'll hold down Old Ma, you take care of the others, then join me to deal with him.
这位道友，现在沂山派也散了，你不会真要得罪我们禾山派吧？¤Hello fellow daoist, the Mt. Yi Sect has now disbanded. You wouldn't really want to offend us from Mt. Harvest, would you?
哼，那就看你够不够格了。¤Hmph, it depends on whether you are qualified or not.
我知道你已经跑路很久了，不过以你筑基的实力，不如考虑一下跟我回禾山继续干如何？¤I know you've been on the run for a long time, but with your foundation building strength, how about considering coming back to Mt. Harvest and continuing to work with me?
哪有什么机缘，只是碰巧成功突破罢了。¤There is no such thing as fate, it's just a coincidence that they successfully broke through.
麻老九凑近身来，放低了声音。¤Old Ma leaned in close and lowered his voice.
哼，不知死活的东西。¤Hmph, a thing that doesn't know its own strength.
不出手就闪开，别挡了老子的道。¤If you don't make a move, get out of the way and don't block my path.
颜老怪蹬了你一眼。¤Geezer Yan gave you a disdainful look.
我牵制住颜老怪，你将其他人对付了，再来跟我一起对付他。¤I'll keep geezer Yan occupied, you handle the others and then join me in taking him down.
定睛一看，原来是禾山派众人正在追杀{$杜老二自适应称呼}。¤Upon closer inspection, it turns out that the members of Mt. Harvest Sect were chasing after {$杜老二自适应称呼}.
现在沂山道也散了，没了那群瘪三，咱们抓人练功还不是手到擒来？桀桀桀！¤Now that the Yishan Sect has disbanded and those bunch of losers are gone, we can easily capture people for our martial arts practice. Ha ha ha!
“当初除掉双鬼只想是为民除害，顺便得个宝贝，没想倒是让禾山派一家独大了起来…”¤At first, I only wanted to eliminate the twin demons for the sake of the people and perhaps gain a treasure as well. I never expected it would lead to the sole domination of Mt. Harvest sect...
算你识趣。我们上！¤You're smart enough. Let's go!
你知道，禾山上就没几个筑基，你去向大统领表个忠心，到时候好处肯定少不了你的。¤You know, there aren't many foundation builders on Mt. Harvest. If you show loyalty to the Grand Commander, there's no doubt you'll be rewarded.
你也不想想，修炼的好去处全被五大派四大家族那帮土皇帝占了，资质好的也全在他们那，咱们这些散修想出头，还能怎么办？¤Have you even thought about it? The best places for cultivation are all occupied by those big five sects and four major clans. And those with good aptitude are all with them too. What can we, wandering cultivators, do if we want to stand out?
你略施神通干扰一二，麻老九一行人便抓住机会追了上来，将杜老二团团围住。¤You use your divine skill to cause some interference, and the group led by Old Ma quickly takes advantage of the situation and catches up, surrounding Old Du.
诶，这就是你想太多了。人不为己天诛地灭，修行的世界本就是弱肉强食，哪来的那么多条条框框？¤Hey, you're overthinking it. In the world of cultivation, it's always been survival of the fittest. There are no rules or regulations to hold anyone back. As the saying goes, 'Heaven destroys those who defy it, and earth exterminates those who rebel against it.'
说起来，这么久不见，你的气息又变强了不少，莫不是遇到了什么机缘？¤Speaking of which, it's been so long since we last met, and your aura has grown much stronger. Could it be that you have come across some fortuitous opportunity?
哈哈哈，这下看你怎么跑。¤Hahaha, now let's see how you run.
麻老九眯着眼打量了你一眼。¤Old Ma Nine squinted his eyes and sized you up with a single glance.
正在颜老怪一行人对杜老二进行围攻之时，麻老九悄悄凑了过来。¤While Geezer Yan and his group were besieging Old Du, Old Ma quietly approached.
桀桀桀，这才像话。我们上！¤Hehehe, that's more like it. Let's go!
“没了沂山派制衡，他们只怕更肆无忌惮了…结丹以后还是想想办法吧。”¤Without the Mt. Yi Sect to keep them in check, they are likely to become even more reckless... After reaching the Core stage, we'll need to think of a way to handle them.
杜兄此前待我不薄，此事我自不会坐视不理，禾山的各位今日还是请回吧。¤Brother Du has treated me well in the past, so I won't sit idly by on this matter. Please leave Mt. Harvest and don't come back.
禾山派修士一拥而上，杜老二没支撑一会便败下阵来。¤Cultivators from Mt. Harvest rushed forward, overpowering Old Du who quickly retreated from the battlefield.
见有人恰好在此，颜老怪便毫不客气地吩咐了起来。¤Seeing that someone happened to be here, Geezer Yan didn't hesitate to give his orders.
我派护山大阵依托于这火山而布，因此仅需数量不多的灵核便能维持日常的运转。¤Our mountain protection array is set up around this volcano, so only a small amount of spiritual nuclei is needed to maintain daily operation.
结丹与筑基不同，若是金丹品阶太差，以后就很难再突破到元婴期了。¤Core formation and foundation building are different. If the golden core's quality is too low, it will be difficult to breakthrough to the nascent soul stage in the future.
不过这次多亏了有你帮忙，我才能这么顺利的找到线索。¤But thanks to your help this time, I was able to find the clues so smoothly.
想必后面的事情爹和大长老一定会妥善处理好的，那星宫的冲虚长老应该也没有脸面再来提亲了。¤Presumably, father and the grand elder will handle things appropriately later on, so the star palace's elder of Void Ascension shouldn't have the face to come and propose marriage again.
没想到爹居然出关了，通羽长老真是的，怎么也不和我说。¤I never expected father to come out of seclusion. It's all thanks to Elder Tongyu. He didn't even tell me.
通羽长老刚刚让我把这些转交给你，说是感谢你替林家拔除了蛀虫。¤Elder Tongyu just tasked me with delivering this to you, and conveyed his gratitude for your help in eliminating the pests plaguing the Lin family.
会长在商会内部拥有很大的权力，所以每次换选除了会长与长老会内部选出候选人外，各族都要额外选出数名金丹及和婴期修士参与投票。¤The guild leader holds great power within the trading guild, so in addition to the candidates selected by the guild leader and elders, each clan must also select several cultivators with golden cores and those in the foundational stage to participate in the voting process.
家族后分为吴家与百里家，后又加入了唐家与白家，才有如今的局面。¤The family was later split into the Wu family and the Baili family, and later the Tang family and the Bai family joined in, forming the present situation.
{FirstName}供奉找我何事？¤Guest Elder {FirstName}, what business brings you to me?
哼，我看这唐平是忘了当年唐家是怎么加入商会的。若让此人当上会长，难免以此缘由私自挪用商会资源，我可信不过他。¤Hmph, I see that Tang Ping has forgotten how the Tang family joined the guild back then. If he becomes the chairman, he might misuse the guild's resources due to this reason, and I don't trust him.
碎星商会乃是万年前鹤真人所创，鹤真人突破化神后隐居深海闭关修炼，商会便由其家族继承。¤The Shattered Star Merchant Guild was founded by He Zhenren tens of thousands of years ago. After He Zhenren broke through deity transformation, he secluded himself in the deep sea to cultivate. The guild was then inherited by his family.
现如今唐家所用神通“鹤回翔”便是当年鹤真人的成名招数。¤Nowadays, the divine skill used by the Tang family, flying crane, is precisely the famous technique of the true expert, He Zhenren.
只是白家素来保持中立，也极少直接参与商会管理权位的争夺。可惜这次比试没能获胜，想换取他们的支持恐怕很难...¤Unfortunately, the Bai family has always maintained neutrality and rarely directly participates in the struggle for control over the merchants' guild. It's a shame that they didn't win this time, as it will be difficult to obtain their support.
我们已经给各族长老发送了传音符，大家应该会在一两年内陆续赶回南崖城参与这次投票。¤We have already sent sound talismans to the elders of each tribe. They should be returning to South Cliff City to participate in this vote within the next year or two.
只是白家素来保持中立，也极少直接参与商会管理权位的争夺。好在这次比试我们赢了，应该能换取他们的支持。¤The Bai family has always remained neutral and seldom directly involved in the struggle for management rights in the business association. Fortunately, we won this competition and should be able to gain their support.
唐家长老唐平一贯主张集商会的资源着重培养族内弟子，反对用商会资源拉拢外族之人，更是对我们吴家招揽供奉的事指手画脚。¤Elder of Tang Family Tang Ping has always advocated for the prioritization of nurturing disciples within the clan using the resources of the merchant association, opposing the use of such resources to attract outsiders. He even went as far as to criticize our Wu Family's recruitment of guest elders.
当年唐家的祖先本只是百里家的一名供奉，因善于炼器而被商会重用，而后得以加入长老会，唐家才成为共同管理商会的家族之一。¤In the past, the ancestor of the Tang family was just a guest elder of the Baili family. However, his talent in refining caught the attention of the merchants, who then appointed him to join the Elder Council. It was then that the Tang family became one of the families that co-managed the merchant association.
白家主要负责商会内部灵舟的炼制，白家长老白灵冰更是当世为数不多有能力炼制六品灵舟之人，在商会内地位极高。¤The White family is mainly responsible for the refinement of spirit boats within the trading company, and White Family Elder Bai Lingbing is one of the few people in the world capable of refining sixth-grade spirit boats. His status within the trading company is extremely high.
咦，这位好像也是我白帝楼子弟吧，怪不得身上的气息让老朽觉得很亲近。¤Oh, it seems like you are also a descendant of my White Emperor Pavilion. No wonder your aura feels familiar to me, the speaker said with surprise.
真正能全身而退的，仅有现在飘在海上的两人。¤The only ones who can leave here alive are the two of us floating on the sea right now.
但这个月的无尽之海却异于常日。先有难得一见的图南漩涡重现海上，再是原本能持续数年的漩涡就这么突兀的消失了。¤However, this month's Endless Sea was different from usual. First, there was the rare appearance of the South Tu vortex on the sea, followed by the sudden disappearance of a vortex that had been able to last for years.
罢了，还是先回南崖城吧，省得引吞云等妖物前来夺宝。待他俩醒转过来，再做询问也不迟。¤Forget it, let's go back to South Cliff City to avoid attracting cloud-swallowing monsters and other beasts that may come to rob us of our treasure. We can ask them questions once they wake up.
阿欣这孩子都元婴期了还是这么莽撞，哎，还好没出事，倒也是因祸得福吧，竟能从中得到天道果。¤Axin, this kid is already in the nascent soul stage but still so reckless. Sigh, luckily nothing happened, but it's also a blessing in disguise since he managed to obtain a heavenly dao fruit from it.
{FirstName}{LastName}和倪旭欣。¤{FirstName}{LastName} and Ni Xuxin.
咦？这位又是谁，虽不是我白帝楼门人，但身上的气息竟让老朽觉得亲近。¤Hmm? And who might you be? Even though you're not a disciple of my White Emperor Pavilion, your aura makes me feel a certain familiarity, the old man remarked.
阿欣这孩子都元婴期了还是这么莽撞，哎，还好没出事。¤Ah Xin is at the Nascent Soul stage, yet still acts so recklessly. Oh well, luckily nothing bad happened.
不，也许还是有人足够幸运能脱离漩涡，但也陷入幻觉难以自拔。¤No, perhaps there are still some lucky ones who can escape the vortex, but they may also fall into illusions and unable to extricate themselves.
图南海应该是无尽之海中，较为平静的一个海域了。没有什么势力争斗，也没有特殊妖兽。¤The South Tu Sea should be a relatively calm area within the Endless Sea. There are no factions fighting for control, and there are no particularly dangerous spirit beasts.
哎，老朽这一生花了太多时间寻找魔剑，白帝楼都是振东在管理，真是辛苦他了。¤Ah, I've spent too much of my life searching for the demon sword. The White Emperor Pavilion is managed by Zhendong, he really deserves credit for all his hard work.
罢了，还是先回南崖城吧，待他俩醒转过来，再做询问也不迟。¤Alright, let's go back to South Cliff City for now. We can ask them questions once they wake up.
如今，这俩人却都是身受重伤，在这海面上随波浮沉着。所幸在这禁地之中，少有修士和妖兽。¤Currently, both of them are seriously wounded and floating on this sea. Fortunately, there are few cultivators and spirit beasts in this forbidden land.
原本泡在海水中的俩人也是被托举在半空中。近旁更是有一位衣着朴素的老者正在检查两者的伤势。¤The two people who were originally in the seawater were also lifted up in the air. There was also a plain-dressed old man nearby examining their injuries.
忽的一阵罡风袭来，原本汹涌不已的海面竟是被压制得了无波澜，像是被一剑横斩开来，只留下了平整的镜面。¤Suddenly, a burst of gang wind struck, and the previously surging sea was suppressed without any waves, as if it had been cut open by a sword, leaving only a smooth mirror surface.
当然，图南海的修士也不会太了解这个，产生漩涡的这片海域对他们而言早已是禁地，毕竟漩涡出现时还停留在这片海域的修士都已经陨落于海底。¤Of course, cultivators in the South Tu Sea are not very familiar with this. This area of the sea, where whirlpools are generated, has long been a forbidden area for them, as any cultivator who remained in this area when the whirlpools appeared has already perished at the bottom of the sea.
嗤！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Ha! {vpunch=10,0.5}
你进入幻阵，周围的云雾在一阵搅动以后，开始慢慢凝聚成为人形。幻象越聚越多...突然，一个幻象向你扑了过来！¤You enter the illusion array, and after the surrounding mist stirs for a while, it slowly condenses into humanoid shapes. The illusions continue to gather... Suddenly, one illusion pounces towards you!
各位兑换完后，这天机大比便算是收场了，在下也就不叨扰了。¤After everyone has exchanged their prizes, the Tianji Competition can be considered finished. I won't bother you anymore.
诸位，适才发放的仙缘石便是于在此处兑换天才地宝、丹方秘籍所用。若有剩余仙缘石，自可随时来此兑换，毋须担心。¤Dear all, the immortal stone distributed earlier can be used to exchange for treasures of heaven and earth, recipe secret manuals here. If there are any remaining immortal stones, you can come here to exchange them at any time without worrying.
原来，这里不过是天魔道无数据点中的一处。¤Originally, this was just a location within the Heavenly Demon Cult's data-less area.
此事事关魔门，还是去一趟白帝楼吧。¤This matter relates to the demonic sect, so let's go to the White Emperor Pavilion.
想不到，竟连我派都被魔门渗透了…¤I never imagined that even our sect has been infiltrated by the demonic sect...
你走进那个布有阵法的房间，原本阵法中心的那名散修，已经没了气息。¤You walk into the room with an array set up, and the wandering cultivator who was originally at the center of the array has already lost their breath.
当年天魔道看中了枯木长老对于长生的迷恋，并且对枯木功也颇感兴趣，便拿出天魔道独门炼制添补寿元的丹药作为交换，得到了枯木长老的庇护与那本枯木功。¤Back in the day, the Heavenly Demon Cult set their sights on Elder Deadwood's obsession with everlasting life, and they were also quite interested in the Deadwood Skill. As such, they offered a unique pill that could add to one's lifespan in exchange for Elder Deadwood's protection and the teachings of the Deadwood Skill.
但也正因为那次，天魔道收敛过一段时间。最近几年风头过去才又开始活动。¤But it was also because of that incident that the Heavenly Demon Cult scaled back its activity for a period of time. It was only in recent years, after the heat died down, that they resumed their operations.
面对此情此景，你摇头哀叹。¤Faced with this situation and scenery, you shake your head and sigh.
不一会功夫，你便搜罗出一些玉简。零零星星地拼凑下，这里的情况倒也了解了个七七八八。¤After a while, you have collected some jade slips. Putting them together piece by piece, you now have a somewhat decent understanding of the situation here.
此前为了追枯木老祖，没来得及彻查此地，希望能找到些有用的线索...¤In order to pursue Patriarch Deadwood, we didn't have the time to thoroughly investigate this place before. I hope we can find some useful clues.
你又将大大小小的房间找了个遍，活人的踪迹没找到，倒是发现了一堆白骨。¤You searched through all the large and small rooms again, but couldn't find any trace of a living person. However, you did discover a pile of white bones.
唉…此等家丑还是莫要外传为好。¤Sigh...it's better not to spread such family shame.
此等是非之地，不宜久留。还是先离开此地再做打算罢。¤This land is full of turmoil and not suitable for long-term stays. It's better to leave this place first and plan our next move.
多年前，竹山宗掌门曾下令彻查此事。不过有枯木长老的庇护，最后也没能查出东西，只得作罢。¤Many years ago, the Bamboo Mountain Sect's sect headmaster had ordered a thorough investigation into this matter. However, with the protection of Elder Deadwood, nothing could be found in the end and the investigation had to be abandoned.
想不到，竟连竹山宗这样的大势力都被魔门渗透了…¤Unexpectedly, even influential powers like Bamboo Mountain Sect have been infiltrated by the demonic sect...
不瞒道友，前段时间在下冒着乱流季的风险出海猎杀妖兽，最后不仅灵舟被毁，还差点丢了性命。¤I won't hide it from my fellow daoists, some time ago, I took the risk of going out to sea to hunt spirit beasts during the turbulent season. In the end, not only was my spirit boat destroyed, but I also almost lost my life.
若是当时找个安全的岛屿等上两个月，等灵气乱流平稳的月份再出海，也不至于落得这般下场。¤If only they had found a safe island to wait for a couple of months, until the chaotic spiritual energy subsided before setting sail, they wouldn't have ended up in such a miserable situation.
天魔道来宁州的目的，便是暗中抓捕宁州散修，行那活人炼丹之法。¤The purpose of the Heavenly Demon Cult's visit to Ningzhou is to secretly capture the wandering cultivators and practice the forbidden art of alchemy using living humans as ingredients.
嗯...这番推断倒也合理，不过仅凭目前的线索，却也无法断言此事一定与他们有关。¤Mm...This inference is reasonable, but based on current clues, it cannot be asserted that this matter is necessarily related to them.
天魔道通过活人炼制的延寿丹药，与不少势力都有勾结。当年应该就是他们在各大门派安插了内鬼，挑拨与御剑门的关系。¤The Heavenly Demon Cult, in collusion with numerous forces, produces the Greater Longevity Pills by refining living people. It was probably them who planted spies in the various sects and instigated discord between them and the Imperial Sword Sect.
另一个目的是...¤Another purpose is...
嗯...这么说确有一定道理，但总觉得还遗漏了一些什么...¤Um...that does make some sense, but I still feel like something is missing...
嗯...这番推断倒也合理，至少仅凭目前的线索来看，这种可能性还是很大。¤Well...this inference is reasonable, at least based on the current clues, this possibility is still very high.
古神教通过控制倪府长老，查清了戮仙剑并不在白帝手中。此后又通过化尘教内鬼恒如的帮助，顺利在宁州古迹中夺取了戮仙剑。¤The Ancient God Sect, through their control of Ni Family Elder, found out that the Immortal Executing Sword was not in the hands of White Emperor. Afterwards, with the help of a spy within Shifting Sand Sect, Hengru, they successfully seized the Immortal Executing Sword within the Ning Province ancient ruins.
血剑宫与白帝有宿怨，为此不惜兴师动众数次攻打白帝楼。¤The Blood Sword Palace has a longstanding grudge with the White Emperor, and has launched several attacks on the White Emperor Pavilion, even mobilizing troops to do so.
师兄曾说过，你们在宁州古迹发现魔剑之前，已有魔修捷足先登了。既然魔剑最终被你收服，那魔门定然要另想办法。¤Senior Brother once said that before you discovered the demon sword in the ancient ruins of Ningzhou, a demonic cultivator had already beaten you to it. Now that you have successfully subdued the demon sword, the demonic sect will surely have to come up with another plan.
如今魔门蠢蠢欲动，各有所图。而当年之事，背后也定有魔门暗中推手...你可是有什么思绪了？¤Nowadays, the demonic sect is stirring, each with its own agenda. And behind the events of past years, the demonic sect must have had a hidden hand... Do you have any thoughts about it?
天魔道修炼的功法恐怕离不开这些邪门的丹药，他们不惜冒险抓人炼丹，是因为他们需要长期潜伏在宁州。¤The cultivation techniques of the Heavenly Demon Cult disciples probably cannot do without these sinister alchemical pills. They are willing to take risks to capture people for alchemy because they need to remain hidden in Ningzhou for an extended period of time.
古神教屡次渗透离火门，正是为了调查火麒麟的情报。¤The Ancient God Sect repeatedly infiltrated the Fire Gate Sect, in order to investigate the intelligence of the Fire Qilin.
古神教通过魔神蛊控制化尘教的恒如长老，由此渗透化尘教长达数百年。¤The Ancient God Sect used the Devil God Gu to control the Constant Elder of the Shifting Sand Sect, infiltrating them for hundreds of years.
我还是再想想吧...¤I'll think about it some more...
古神教通过魔神蛊控制了不少散修为己所用，目的正是为了发展自身在宁州的势力。¤The Ancient God Sect has controlled many wandering cultivators with the Devil God Gu, all for the sake of building their power in Ningzhou.
嗯...这番推断倒也合理。¤Well...this inference is also reasonable.
天魔道{$tmdstr1}，而天魔道来宁州的主要目的，则是{$tmdstr2}...¤Heavenly Demon Cult Disciple {$tmdstr1}, while the main purpose of Heavenly Demon Cult coming to Ningzhou is {$tmdstr2}...
血剑宫在当年大战后不久便出现在宁州，甚至救下了重伤的凌轩。¤Blood Sword Palace appeared in Ningzhou shortly after the war, and even saved the heavily injured Ling Xuan.
除此以外，血剑宫来宁州的主要目的应该是...¤In addition, the main purpose of Blood Sword Palace coming to Ningzhou should be...
除此以外，天魔道来宁州的主要目的应该是...¤Apart from that, the main purpose of the Heavenly Demon Cult coming to Ningzhou should be...
目前收集到有关天魔道的线索中，其实包含着一个可能与御剑门有关的重要的信息。天魔道...¤Currently, the clues collected regarding the Heavenly Demon Cult may actually contain important information related to the Imperial Sword Sect. The Heavenly Demon Cult Disciple...
天魔道应当与玄道宗有宿怨，因此才会不惜派遣多名元婴期修士攻打玄道宗。¤The Heavenly Demon Cult must have a grudge against the Xuan Dao Sect, which is why they were willing to send multiple Nascent Soul cultivators to attack them.
不管怎么说，至少我们可以有所防备...等下次见到凌轩师兄的时候，再问问他的看法吧。¤Anyway, at least we can be prepared... Let's ask for Senior Brother Ling Xuan's opinion the next time we see him.
而当年最先流传出御剑门私通魔门传闻的是...¤And it was rumored that the first to have privately colluded with the demonic sect was the Imperial Sword Sect...
根据之前打听到的线索，当年是一名离火门弟子最先传出了御剑门私通魔门的消息。¤According to previous inquiries, it was a fire gate disciple who first leaked the news of the imperial sword sect's collusion with the demonic sect.
目前收集到有关古神教的线索中，其实包含着一个可能与御剑门有关的重要的信息。古神教...¤Currently, the information gathered about the Ancient God Sect contains an important piece of information that may be related to the Imperial Sword Sect. The Ancient God Sect...
天魔道不仅与宁王府有勾结，与竹山宗长老亦有勾结。¤Not only is the Heavenly Demon Cult colluding with the Ning King's Manor, but they are also in collusion with the Bamboo Mountain Sect Elder.
古神教通过魔神蛊渗了宁州各大势力，以获取情报和利益，发展自身在宁州的势力。¤The Ancient God Sect infiltrated various powers in Ningzhou through the Devil God Gu, in order to gather intelligence and gain benefits, while expanding their own influence in Ningzhou.
天魔道来宁州的主要目的，是为了调查天魔眼的情报，并找机会释放天魔眼中的天魔。¤The main purpose of the Heavenly Demon Cult coming to Ningzhou is to investigate information on the Heavenly Demon's Eye and find an opportunity to free the Heavenly Demon sealed within the Eye.
天魔道来宁州的主要目的，也是为了夺取戮仙剑。¤The main purpose of the Heavenly Demon Cult's arrival in Ningzhou is to seize the Immortal Executing Sword.
可老夫并不记得曾与什么魔门结过仇...而且若要说寻仇的话，玄道宗与其它五大门派才应该是首当其冲才对...¤I don't remember ever having a grudge with any demonic sect...And if we're talking about seeking revenge, Xuan Dao Sect and the other five major sects should be the first targets...
古神教曾通过魔神蛊控制倪府长老，试图以此达到渗透白帝楼的目的。¤The Ancient God Sect once used the Devil God Gu to control the Ni Family Elder, in an attempt to infiltrate the White Emperor Pavilion.
血剑宫兴师动众来宁州攻打白帝楼，便是为了夺取戮仙剑。¤The Blood Sword Palace mobilized an army to attack the White Emperor Pavilion in Ningzhou, all for the purpose of seizing the Immortal Executing Sword.
千年来活跃于宁州之魔道无外乎天魔道，古神教与血剑宫三者，先按现在已经收集到的线索逐一推断试试吧...¤For centuries, the demonic path that has been active in Ningzhou is none other than the Heavenly Demon Cult, Ancient God Sect, and Blood Sword Palace. Let's make deductions based on the clues we have already gathered...
血剑宫救下凌轩是为了弄清楚御剑门之战时发生了什么，看来他们并没有直接经历这次战斗。¤The Blood Sword Palace saved Ling Xuan to figure out what happened during the Imperial Sword Sect's battle. It seems they did not directly experience this combat.
血剑宫{$xjgstr1}，而血剑宫来宁州的主要目的，则是{$xjgstr2}...¤Blood Sword Palace {$xjgstr1}, and the main purpose of Blood Sword Palace coming to Ningzhou is {$xjgstr2}...
天魔道来宁州的主要目的，是为了伺机报复玄道宗。¤The main purpose of the Heavenly Demon Cult coming to Ningzhou is to wait for the opportunity to seek revenge against the Xuan Dao Sect.
古神教为了调查火麒麟的情报，常年通过魔神蛊渗透离火门。若他们想通过在离火门内安插的内鬼散布御剑门私通魔门的谣言，想必不是难事。¤The Ancient God Sect has been using the Devil God Gu to infiltrate the Fire Gate Sect for years in order to gather intelligence on the Fire Qilin. It would not be difficult for them to spread rumors of the Imperial Sword Sect colluding with the demon sect by using their spy within the Fire Gate Sect.
血剑宫来宁州的目的，正是为了攻打白帝楼，向白帝寻仇。¤The purpose of the Blood Sword Sect coming to Ningzhou is to attack the White Emperor Pavilion and seek revenge against the White Emperor.
血剑宫一直以来的目标都是收集魔剑，当年事发之时也曾出现在宁州。当年最有可能对御剑门下手的应该就是他们。¤The Blood Sword Palace has always aimed to collect demon swords, and they were present in Ningzhou when the incident happened years ago. They were the most likely culprits to attack the Imperial Sword Sect at that time.
由此看来，当年的幕后黑手最有可能是....¤It seems that the mastermind behind it all back then is most likely...
目前收集到有关血剑宫的线索中，其实包含着一个可能与御剑门有关的重要的信息。血剑宫...¤Currently, the clues collected about the Blood Sword Palace actually contain important information that may be related to the Imperial Sword Sect. The Blood Sword Palace...
唔...老夫记得似乎不是这样...¤Hmm... I don't remember it being like this...
从千年前起，古神教就不断尝试通过魔神蛊控制离火门的弟子。¤Since a thousand years ago, the Ancient God Sect has been continuously attempting to control the disciples of Fire Gate Sect through the use of Devil God Gu.
血剑宫对白帝所创的剑术功法觊觎已久，他们暗中调查与攻打白帝楼，实际是为了盗取白帝楼功法。¤The Blood Sword Sect has long coveted the sword techniques and techniques created by the White Emperor. They are secretly investigating and attacking the White Emperor Pavilion to actually steal its techniques.
古神教{$gsjstr1}，而古神教来宁州的目的有两个，分别是{$gsjstr2}和{$gsjstr3}...¤The Ancient God Sect {$gsjstr1} has two purposes for coming to Ningzhou, which are {$gsjstr2} and {$gsjstr3}...
白帝楼？当年哪儿来的白帝楼？¤White Emperor Pavilion? Where did the White Emperor Pavilion come from back then?
仔细想想，当年魔门盯上御剑门，真正的目的是为了...¤Upon careful consideration, when the demonic sect targeted the imperial sword sect back then, their real intention was for...
除此以外，古神教来宁州的目的应该有两个。其一是...¤Apart from that, the ancient god sect's purpose in coming to Ningzhou should be twofold. Firstly...
《衍复笔录》......？¤《Yanfu Writings》...?
你将笔录收进储物袋，打算离开宁州古迹后再交换给金虹剑派。¤You put the notes into a storage pouch, planning to exchange them with the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect after leaving the Ning Province ancient ruin.
此人实力不俗，从神通看来应当与金虹剑派有着不小的渊源......¤This person is quite powerful. From his divine skill, it seems that he has a close connection to the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
你将笔录收进储物袋，打算离开宁州古迹后再做打算。¤You store the records in a storage pouch, planning to make plans later after leaving the Ningzhou ancient ruins.
你草草地翻了几页，里面大致记载了一些此人对于剑道的所得以及些许的生活琐事。¤You quickly flipped through a few pages, roughly recording some of this person's insights on sword dao and some details of their daily life.
看来这就是金虹剑派所寻的大长老吧...这煞气真是可怕，竟连此等强者也难逃心智损毁的厄运......¤It seems that this is the grand elder that the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect is searching for... The demonic energy is truly terrifying, even such a strong individual cannot escape the unfortunate fate of mental damage...
不错的灵力，这条泽蟒绝非普通的筑基期妖兽实力，小心应对。¤Good spiritual power, this pond boa is not an ordinary foundation establishment spirit beast in terms of strength, be careful in dealing with it.
哎哟，伤口裂开了，好疼啊，还是{$Lin}去开凿那万载冰心石矿吧。¤Ouch, the wound has opened up, it hurts so much. I think {$Lin} should go and mine the 10,000 years ice heart stone.
都放你那吧，我们赶紧回林府给你疗伤。¤Just leave it to you, let's hurry back to Lin House to treat your injuries.
孽畜！你敢！¤Beast! How dare you!
好，好好，是我记错了，{$Lin}一直很会关心人。¤Okay, okay, I remembered wrong. {$Lin} has always been very good at caring for others.
少来了，冥蛛可是神识攻击，哪有什么伤口。¤Don't be ridiculous. The Dark Spider is a soul sense strike, there's no way it could leave any wounds.
眼看林沐心又要上来揍你，赶紧用法宝将整块万载冰心石矿脉尽数取下，随机收入储物袋中。¤As Lin Muxin was about to come and beat you up again, quickly use your artifact to extract the entire vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone and store it randomly in your storage pouch. Ignore any non-Chinese characters.
嗯...你的伤怎么样...¤Um... How's your injury...
全都给我倒成你陪我来这洞窟探索了。¤Everyone, follow me into this cave for exploration, I said as I surveyed the group.
林沐心再躲过冥蛛蓄力的一招后，趁着这妖兽下一轮攻击未至，闪身到你近旁。¤After dodging a strike from the Dark Spider, Lin Muxin quickly moved to your side while the Spirit Beast prepared for its next power surge.
眼见你将要抵挡不住那冥蛛的神识攻击时，林沐心竟在遁术的加持下一闪身便挡在你身前。¤As you were about to succumb to the attack of the Dark Spider's soul sense, Lin Muxin suddenly used her mobility technique to flash in front of you and take the strike for you.
喏，把这五阶妖丹收好，其他还要什么吗？¤Here, take these fifth-rank demon cores and keep them safe. Do you need anything else?
好在林沐心是有备而来，并未因此受伤，反倒是与冥蛛打的有来有回。让你悬着的心放下不少。¤Fortunately, Lin Muxin came prepared and did not get hurt. Instead, she gave the Dark Spider a run for its money in their battle. This relieved your anxious heart quite a bit.
哪，哪有，我一向都很关心人的。¤Where, where, I have always been very concerned about people.
我...¤I...
这东西除了偷袭有一手，倒也没多强，就是不知道它从哪儿来的，竟能躲过我们俩的神识探测。¤This thing is not very strong apart from being able to sneak strike with one hand. I don't know where it came from, but it was able to avoid detection from both of our soul sense.
（终于是让{$Lin}放心了，不过这冥蛛的神识攻击还真是强力，看来之后不免要修养几天了。）¤(Finally, {$Lin} can rest assured. However, the dark spider's soul sense strike was incredibly powerful. It seems I'll have to take a few days to recover.)
但数十回合之后，这神通你来我往之下，林沐心却未占得半点好处，反倒是因为担心你的伤势而越战越急，好几次露出破绽，险些中招。¤After dozens of rounds of trading divine skills, Lin Muxin had gained no advantage and was even more worried about your injuries. Several times, she exposed flaws and almost got hit.
嘿嘿，没想到居然骗不到你。¤Hehe, I didn't expect that I couldn't fool you.
放心吧，我这不还能在你的帮助下击杀这冥蛛呢。¤Don't worry, with your help, I can still kill this dark spider.
你小心翼翼地将那万载冰心石矿脉尽数凿下，但仍是不见那冥蛛的身影，你也只得小心翼翼地抱起因神识受损而有些意识昏沉的林沐心往洞外退去。¤You cautiously chiseled out the entire vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone, but still couldn't see any sign of the dark spider. Carefully, you picked up Lin Muxin, who had fallen unconscious due to her damaged soul sense, and retreated out of the cave.
咦？以前的{$Lin}可不是这样的，若是换成当年，哪怕是越阶战斗之后，你都不会担心我哈哈。¤Huh? The previous {$Lin} wasn't like this. If it was back then, even if we had to combat across tiers, you wouldn't be worried about me, haha.
{FirstName}{$NickName}刚才受了些伤，这冥蛛又难缠得很，我们还是离开此处吧。¤{FirstName}{$NickName} just got injured and this Dark Spider is quite troublesome, let's leave this place.
少贫嘴了，既然没事就快去把你的万载冰心石凿下来吧。¤Stop being so talkative, since you're not busy, go and chisel out your 10,000 years ice heart stone.
你虽为她担心，当刚才的战斗已是耗费了大量的灵气与精力，一时间也难以做些什么。¤Although you are worried about her, the previous combat has already consumed a lot of spiritual energy and energy, so it is difficult to do anything for the time being.
哼，不要了，都给你吧。¤Hmph, I don't want it. You can have it all.
这冥蛛眼看自己不是你的对手，全力抵挡你两记神通后，看准攻击空隙躲至那万载冰心石矿脉旁，不知以何方法隐去了自身的身形，乃至神识气息也消弭无踪。¤This dark spider eye saw that it was not your match, and after resisting your two divine skills with all its might, it seized the opportunity to hide by the 10,000 years ice heart stone vein of ore. It disappeared without a trace, concealing both its form and soul sense in an unknown way.
你驱动法宝细致的将整块万载冰心石矿脉尽数取下，随即收入储物袋中。¤You activate your artifact and meticulously extract the entire vein of 10,000 years ice heart stone, then store it in your storage pouch.
这一拳看起来下手狠厉，落实处却是很轻。¤This punch appears to be ruthless, but when it hits it is actually very light.
老掉牙的把戏还想骗我第二次呢。¤The old tricks won't fool me a second time.
不等涨红着脸的林沐心回话，你快速将话题转回到冥蛛上。¤Without waiting for the blushing Lin Muxin to reply, you quickly redirected the conversation back to the Dark Spider.
感动，林家二小姐终于有些长进了。¤Moved, Lin Family's 2nd Sister has finally made some progress.
这冥蛛是元婴期妖兽，身上可都是好东西，我们分一分吧。¤This dark spider is a spirit beast at the nascent soul stage, and there are all sorts of treasures on its body. Let's divide them up.
好了，回去吧。¤Okay, let's go back.
林沐心一脸关切的走上来，却是狠狠的给了你一拳。¤Lin Muxin walked up to you with a concerned expression, but gave you a fierce punch.
糟了...恐怕龙族误以为再次上当，特意前来讨个说法......！¤Oh no... The dragon clan might think they've been tricked again and have come specifically to demand an explanation...!
即便百里族多年根基毁于一旦，你也要一意孤行吗？¤Even if the Baili clan's foundation is destroyed in an instant, will you still persist in going it alone?
呵呵，你们这是打算去哪啊？¤Hehe, where do you plan to go?
你们对视几秒，百里奇悄悄地指向门外，你心领神会，打算同他一起悄无声息地溜出府去。¤You and Baili Qi exchanged gazes for a few seconds, then he quietly pointed towards the door. You understood his intention and planned to slip out of the mansion with him without making a sound.
可这本来就并非我族之物，如今物归原主本为理所应当之事！¤But this was not originally our clan's possession, so it is only right that it should return to its rightful owner!
父亲言下之意是要我像祖父一样，为了自己的前程做个背信弃义之人吗！¤Father's implication was that he wanted me to become a treacherous person like my grandfather, all in pursuit of my own career!
父亲此话何意？难不成我百里家失了这龙珠就一事无成！¤What does Father mean by this? Is it possible that our Baili family would achieve nothing if we fail to obtain this Dragon Ball?
父亲！您怎么会在这里！¤Father! How could you be here!
你们刚推开门，便被站在庭中的百里邑捉了个正着。¤As soon as you pushed open the door, you were caught red-handed by Baili Yi standing in the courtyard.
言罢，百里邑略带责备地望向百里奇，失望地叹了口气，转身向院外走去。¤After speaking, Baili Yi looked at Baili Qi with a hint of reproach, sighed disappointedly, and turned to leave the courtyard.
你是百里一族的少主，肩负着我族的未来。难道你真要将龙珠带走，弃族人于不顾吗？¤You are the young master of the Baili clan, responsible for our clan's future. Are you really going to take the Dragon Ball and abandon our people?
不好了家主！海上！海上来了好大一群龙！码头那里看得清清楚楚！¤Something's not good, Patriarch! There's a huge group of dragons coming from the sea! You can see them clearly from the pier!
什么？！龙族明明答应不再入侵广陵城...快带我去看看！¤What?! The dragon clan promised not to invade Guangling City anymore... Take me there quickly to see!
我们也去码头看看吧！¤Let's also go to the pier and take a look!
胡闹！你祖父为了族人费心竭力，又岂是你能议论的？¤Nonsense! Your grandfather has devoted himself to the welfare of our clan. It's not something you can comment on.
为何龙族会突然来到广陵城...？难道说...{FirstName}{xiongdi}，五年之期已过？¤Why did the Dragon Clan suddenly come to Guangling City...? Could it be that... {FirstName} {xiongdi}, the five-year deadline has passed?
我先前在府中等候百里兄便花了许久的时间，而后寻找百里兄时破解阵法也耗费了多时，恐怕已经过了与龙湛约定的日子。¤I had been waiting for Brother Baili in the mansion for quite some time, and then spent a long time looking for him, breaking through the array. I'm afraid that the day agreed upon with Long Zhan has already passed.
也就是现在的，血薇仙子。¤That is now known as Fairy Crimson Blood.
好好好！¤Okay, okay, okay!
他虽然没传授太多的功法神通给我，但也算是我师父吧。¤Although he didn't teach me a lot of techniques and divine skills, he can still be considered my master.
但还有另一分支，筑基期的祭血侍和金丹期的祭血使。¤But there is another branch, the blood sacrificial ritual during the foundation establishment stage, and the blood sacrificial ritual during the golden core stage.
是数道残留有魔气的剑痕。我推测是在不久前曾有人在此尝试收服过这柄魔剑，只是不知为何退走了。¤There are several residual sword marks with magic qi here. I speculate that someone has recently tried to tame this demon sword, but for some reason withdrew.
嗯，不过动身之前还有一事。¤Well, there is still one thing before we set off.
随着一声轻喝，白帝右手后引，顶着诛仙剑强大的吞噬之力从剑中强行扯出一个半透明的身影。¤With a light shout, the White Emperor pulled back his right hand and forcefully pulled out a semi-transparent figure from the Immortal Sword, which was being devoured by its powerful force.
这信物你且收下，若在玄道宗遇到麻烦，只需出示即可。¤Take this token for now, if you encounter any trouble in the Xuan Dao Sect, just show it to them.
白帝一边说着，竟有些激动了起来，陡然升起的气势让你和倪旭欣都不由得退后数步才堪堪站稳，更不容说房里本就不多的装饰，如今都是一片狼藉。而且你们知道，这还是白帝在努力克制着自己，不然...¤While talking, White Emperor's tone became somewhat agitated, and his sudden rise of momentum made both you and Ni Xuxin take a few steps back before barely maintaining your balance. Moreover, as you already know, this is White Emperor attempting to restrain himself. Otherwise, the few decorations in the room would have been completely in shambles.
好，我会尽快启程前往宁州。¤Alright, I will depart for Ningzhou as soon as possible.
（难道魏老的推测不对？嗯，修炼至今没见过有其他人会御剑门功法，不如用魏老教的《长生诀》口诀再试探一番。）¤(Could it be that Old Wei's speculation is incorrect? Hmm, since nobody else has been seen cultivating the techniques of the Imperial Sword Sect, let's try using the mantra of the 《Longevity Art》 that Old Wei taught us to explore further.)
我怎么感觉自己与师祖还有{FirstName}{xiongdi}不在同一个世界...完全不知道发生了什么...¤Why do I feel like I'm in a different world from my master and {FirstName}{xiongdi}... I have no idea what happened...
啊，对了，{FirstName}{xiongdi}你之前不是说有事找师祖么，可别忘了。¤Ah, by the way, {FirstName} brother, weren't you saying you had something to ask our master? Don't forget.
只是一缕虚弱的剑魂居然能让这位无敌于天下的白帝声泪俱下，哭得像是一个于红尘中难以自拔的凡人！¤Just a weak sword spirit was able to make the invincible white emperor, who was unparalleled in the world, burst into tears and cry like a mortal trapped in the mortal world!
但从宁州古迹回来后，我除了修炼便是在宗门大殿中主持门派事务，未曾听说有此事。¤After returning from the Ancient Ruins of Ning Province, I have been either cultivating or overseeing clan affairs in The Great Hall of the Clan. I have not heard of this matter.
老头曾说过，这柄剑是他在宁州古迹中找到的。当年在古迹中还发生过什么值得注意的事么？¤The old man once said that he found this sword in the ancient ruins of Ningzhou. Was there anything noteworthy that happened in those ruins back then?
这可是化神后期修士白帝！这可是宁州乃至九州第一剑修白帝！这可是能护宁州安定的白帝楼楼主白帝！¤This is the late void transformation cultivator, White Emperor! This is the top sword cultivator in Ningzhou and even the entire Nine Provinces, White Emperor! This is the master of White Emperor Pavilion, the one who is able to protect Ningzhou and maintain stability, White Emperor!
但你也没能察觉到，在窥探白帝语气变化的同时，你自己眉间的阴霾也是静静地散开。¤However, you also didn't notice that while trying to catch the changes in the White Emperor's tone, the gloom between your eyebrows quietly dissipated.
{FirstName}{$shidi}，私下里不用客气，叫我一声师兄即可。但在外还请莫要告及他人我的真实身份，如今魔门蠢动，此事恐引起分歧，不利于宁州众派团结对外。¤{FirstName}{$shidi}, no need to be formal in private, just call me senior brother. However, please do not reveal my true identity to others when we're out. With the demonic sect on the move, this could cause disagreements and harm the unity of the various factions in Ningzhou.
是的。在白帝楼建立前，他们甚至更少在宁州露面，所以我当时对血剑宫了解不深。乃至错认为他们只是个追求剑道的门派，只是神通较为狠厉而已。¤Yes. Before the establishment of White Emperor Pavilion, they rarely showed up in Ningzhou, so I didn't know much about Blood Sword Palace at the time. I even mistakenly believed that they were just a sect pursuing sword dao, with only more powerful divine skills.
他们不仅掌控一柄魔剑，又努力渗透天魔眼禁制多年，恐怕是会率先发难。¤They not only wield a demon sword, but have also been working hard to infiltrate the Heavenly Devil's Eye restriction for many years. They are likely to be the first to make a move.
所以它在师父与古树战斗后才变成现在这样的？¤So, it was after the master's battle with the ancient tree that it turned into its current form?
天长地久，大地之所以能长久者，以其不自生...¤Forever and ever, the reason why the earth can last forever is because it does not create itself...
为了防止意外发生，我便独自顺着痕迹追寻而去，果然发现有一人正敛息潜伏于附近。此人见形迹暴露，扔出几枚血煞符将我逼退后，便用某种遁术逃离了。¤In order to prevent any unexpected events, I followed the traces alone and discovered someone restraining their breath lurking nearby. When this person saw that their cover was blown, they threw a few blood-curse charms to push me back and then used some kind of mobility technique to escape.
即便离白帝初学这段口诀已是过去了近两千年之久，但这位化神期大能还是如当年稚嫩的年轻修士般，顺畅地念出了后续的口诀。¤Even though it has been nearly two thousand years since White Emperor's beginner verse was first learned, this deity transformation cultivator smoothly recites the following verse just like a young cultivator from back then.
白帝没有继续说下去，但你显然已经知道他未说出口的是什么。¤The White Emperor didn't continue speaking, but you obviously already know what he didn't say out loud.
那缕身影似乎是过于虚弱，总给人一种快要消散在世间的感觉。白帝也是强行按下心中的惊诧，将之重新送回锈剑中，并留下几缕剑意作为保护。¤That faint figure seemed too weak, giving people a feeling that it was about to dissipate in the world. The white emperor also forcibly suppressed the shock in his heart and sent it back into the rusty sword, leaving behind a few strands of sword intent to protect it.
你没有选择回答白帝的问题，而是将刚转化为纯阳法宝的锈剑取下，并递给白帝。后者也只是激动了片刻，在你递上锈剑时已然恢复了平时淡然自若的神态。¤Instead of answering the White Emperor's question, you took off the rusty sword that had just transformed into a Pure Yang magic weapon and handed it to him. He was only excited for a moment and had already recovered his usual calm demeanor when you handed him the sword.
那就交给{FirstName}{$shidi}了。¤I'll leave that to {FirstName}{$shidi}.
当年离火门领着五大宗门围困我御剑门时，原本只需师傅亲自出面沟通，或可解此危局。但正是由于师傅未能收服魔剑，以至于大量魔气从我派护宗大阵中溢出，才导致...¤When the Fire Gate Sect surrounded our Imperial Sword Sect with the five major clans, we only needed our master to come forward and communicate to resolve the crisis. However, because our master was unable to subdue the Demon Sword, a large amount of Magic Qi overflowed from our clan's protective formation, leading to...
白帝左手持剑，右手虚抓，灵气喷涌而出，却是被锈剑全数吞噬，连原本黯淡的剑柄也是有光泽了起来，剑身更是剑气吞吐，一副蓄势待发的样子。¤With his left hand holding a sword and his right hand empty, White Emperor released his spiritual energy which was completely devoured by the rusty sword. Even the dull hilt had become shiny and the sword emitted sword qi, gathering momentum for an imminent strike.
（白帝竟然没有认出诛仙剑？它之前可是吸收了不少魔气和煞气，虽是没有恢复全盛状态，也已是纯阳灵宝了。）¤(White Emperor didn't even recognize the Immortal Sword? Previously it had absorbed a lot of Magic Qi and Death Qi. Although it hasn't fully recovered, it's already a Pure Yang Spiritual Treasure.)
白帝前辈可知那古树的来历？¤Senior White Emperor, do you know the origin of that ancient tree?
据我所知，血剑宫的修士似乎并不经常出现在宁州。¤As far as I know, cultivators from Blood Sword Palace don't seem to appear often in Ningzhou.
这老头真是不安生，死了一千多年了居然还给我找了个小{$shidi}，哈哈哈。¤This old man is really restless, even after being dead for over a thousand years he still found me a little {shidi}, hahaha.
这是血剑宫特有的分级制度，一般来说从练气到化神分别是血剑傀，血剑侍，血剑使，血剑尊与血剑仙。¤This is the unique hierarchical system of Blood Sword Palace. Generally, from Qi Refining to Deity Transformation, they are respectively Blood Sword Marionette, Blood Sword Attendant, Blood Sword User, Blood Sword Honored and Blood Sword Immortal.
前辈谬赞了，倪兄可是继承了前辈的衣钵传承，此次能从海底生还，还是托前辈的福。¤Senior, you flatter me. It is thanks to inheriting your teachings that Brother Ni was able to survive the underwater ordeal.
至于天魔眼一事，{FirstName}{$shidi}若是遇到了麻烦也可以找白帝楼中人或是振东与阿欣帮忙。¤As for the matter of the Heavenly Devil's Eye, {FirstName}{$shidi} can always seek help from the people of the White Emperor Pavilion or from Zhen Dong and Ah Xin if they encounter any troubles.
（师祖居然...哭...哭了？）¤(Teacher ancestor actually... cried... cried?)
（就倪兄那炼丹技术，数百年都没啥长进，估计白帝想说的可能是‘老朽怎会拿天道果给你小子暴殄天物’，哈哈哈。）¤(With Brother Ni's alchemy skills, he hasn't made much progress in several hundred years. It's probably what the White Emperor meant when he said, 'How could an old man like me give you Heavenly Dao Fruit to ruin it, kid.' Hahaha.)
凌轩...¤Ling Xuan...
当年在为师傅护法之时，我确实留意到了一些令人在意的痕迹。¤When I was protecting my master back then, I did notice some traces that were worth paying attention to.
这小子从小就喜欢冒险，以前想着有振东给他的法宝保命，也就由着他去了。没想他小子竟然敢带着小友莽莽撞撞地奔着图南海就去了，若不是小友实力强劲，不但阿欣要夭于海底，还得搭上小友。¤This young lad has always enjoyed adventure. In the past, he relied on the artifact given to him by Zhen Dong to keep him safe, so he went ahead with it. Unexpectedly, he brought his friend along and recklessly headed towards the South Tu Sea. If it weren't for his strong friend, not only would Ah Xin have died at the bottom of the sea, but he would have also dragged his friend down with him.
嗯，老朽初至那古树附近时，仅是瞥了一眼，却是被灌输了大量的大道感悟，险些神魂失守。而后又知道了这古树的果实竟是传说中的天道果，更是让老朽确信了这一点。¤Hmm, when I first arrived near that ancient tree, I only took a glance but was infused with a large amount of great dao sense, almost losing my soul. Later, I found out that the fruit of this ancient tree is actually the legendary heavenly dao fruit, which further convinced me of this.
晚辈{FirstName}{LastName}，见过白帝前辈。¤Junior generation.{FirstName}{LastName}，见过白帝前辈。
嘿嘿，那师祖你老人家就没顺手给我拿个几颗天道果炼丹么？¤Hey, Master, did you forget to give me a few Heavenly Dao Fruits to use for alchemy?
这铁剑看上去平淡无奇，却是纯阳法宝，其中的吞噬威能也是令人惊奇。但又与《长生诀》有何联系？等等，其中有几分熟悉的气息。¤This iron sword may seem plain, but it's actually a pure yang magic weapon with a surprising devouring power. But what does it have to do with the 《longevity art》? Wait a minute, there's a slightly familiar aura about it.
后来我与血薇接连突破至元婴境界，也与荣升血剑尊的她一同参与宫内事务，因此看到了血剑宫修士为了力量无所不用其极的本性。¤Later on, I and Xue Wei broke through to the Nascent Soul stage successively and participated in the affairs of Blood Sword Palace with her who had also been promoted to Blood Sword Venerable. Thus, we witnessed the nature of cultivators in Blood Sword Palace who would go to any lengths for more power.
白帝尽量让自己的声音保持平静，但你明显能从中察觉出那种像是受限于瓶颈千年，终是突破桎梏的惊喜之情。¤White Emperor tried to keep his voice as calm as possible, but you could clearly sense the excitement of breaking through the bottleneck of millenniums of restraint.
千年前好像是听说过这号人，不过这么多年过去，也没太多印象了。¤A thousand years ago, it seems I have heard of this person, but after so many years, I don't have much impression anymore.
嗯...老朽其实也不太清楚，若不是前往图南海调查魔剑，也是不知海底还有这神奇的古树。不，与其说是古树，不如把他看成道的化身。¤Well... I'm not really sure myself. If it wasn't for going to the South Tu Sea to investigate the Demon Sword, I wouldn't have known about this miraculous ancient tree in the depths of the sea. Actually, rather than calling it an ancient tree, it's more like the embodiment of Tao.
好，请凌师兄放心。¤Alright, please rest assured, Senior Brother Ling.
{FirstName}{$shidi}，让你见笑了。咳，若是有什么想问的，我可以为你解惑。¤{FirstName}{$shidi}, I apologize for any offense I may have caused. If you have any questions, I am happy to provide answers.
确定了魔剑曾出现在九嶷山后，这行人中唯一的元婴修士便要求其他金丹修士分散出去调查诛仙剑的下落。而我则被其中一位女性修士自告奋勇地带回了血剑宫。¤After confirming that the demon sword had appeared on Jiuyi Mountain before, the only Nascent Soul cultivator among the group requested the other Golden Core cultivators to spread out and investigate the whereabouts of the Immortal Sword. Meanwhile, I was volunteered by a female cultivator to be brought back to the Blood Sword Palace.
我会去寻找残魂复活秘术的线索，此行可能要远赴其他州乃至是无尽之海深处，传音符大概会失去效用。若有收获，会以秘法通知振东，届时让阿欣联系你。¤I will search for clues on how to revive remnant souls using secret arts. This journey may take me to other provinces or even the depths of the endless sea, and sound talismans may become ineffective. If I have any success, I will notify Zhen Dong through a secret method and have Axin contact you at that time.
师父的魂体非常虚弱，但也没什么大碍，在剑中静养慢慢恢复即可。¤Master's soul body is very weak, but it's not a big deal. Just rest quietly in the sword and gradually recover.
另外...当年御剑门绝未私通魔门，只是多年来我一直未能找寻出被埋藏的真相。{shidi}若是有机会，务必留意相关线索。¤Furthermore... The Imperial Sword Sect never colluded with the Demon Sect back then. It's just that I have been unable to find out the buried truth over the years. {shidi}, if you have the chance, please pay attention to any related clues.
似乎是离火门当时的筑基期大弟子在九嶷山遇上了魔修，后来与我派弟子交流情报时又起了纠纷，被当场击杀。¤It seems that a senior disciple of the Fire Gate Sect during the Foundation Building Stage encountered a demonic cultivator at Jiuyi Mountain. Later, when exchanging intelligence with our sect's disciples, a dispute arose and the disciple was killed on the spot.
这次海底之行多亏{FirstName}小友给阿欣这孩子帮忙了。¤This journey under the sea was thanks to young friend {FirstName} for helping this child, Axin.
在倪旭欣自言自语地上演一小出插曲时，白帝也是快速的调整好了自己的心情。¤As Ni Xuxin murmured to himself and added a short interlude, White Emperor swiftly adjusted his own emotions.
小友不必谦虚，阿欣的实力老朽还是清楚的，若是他独自面对那古树，哪怕只是外围的根须，也只会是束手无策。¤Young friend, there's no need to be modest. Old Xu knows well enough of Ah Xin's strength. If he were to face that ancient tree alone, even just its outer root whiskers, he would be powerless.
白帝一边说着，竟有些激动了起来，陡然升起的气势让你皱了皱眉，倪旭欣则是连退数步才堪堪站稳，更不容说房里本就不多的装饰，如今都是一片狼藉。而且你们知道，这还是白帝在努力克制着自己，不然...¤As White Emperor spoke, he grew somewhat emotional. The sudden rise in his imposing demeanor caused you to furrow your brow. Ni Xuxin, on the other hand, stumbled several steps back before finally regaining her balance. Additionally, the room, which had already been sparsely decorated, was now in complete disarray. And you know what? This is White Emperor trying to restrain himself. Otherwise...
那古树既能孕育天道果，又岂是这么好对付的。老朽跟它过了两招确定与魔剑无关，也就离去了。¤That ancient tree not only nurtures the heavenly dao fruit, but it is also not easy to deal with. I exchanged a few moves with it and confirmed that it had nothing to do with the demon sword, so I left.
也许我应该退出去，让他们慢慢聊？¤Maybe I should step out and let them chat slowly?
出！¤Out!
不知白帝前辈可曾听过凌轩这个名字？¤I wonder if Senior White Emperor has ever heard of the name Ling Xuan?
说起来，这算不算是我知道了师祖的秘密，以后可以威胁他帮我找各种丹药了嘿嘿。¤Speaking of which, does this count as me knowing my master's secret, and being able to use it to threaten him into helping me find various pill medicines in the future hehe.
这一类则是天赋不足，无法在寿元无多之前将自身修为修炼至当前境界的大圆满，遂靠药物强行提升，以寻求渺茫的突破机会。¤This type of cultivator has inadequate talent and is unable to reach the pinnacle of their current realm before their lifespan runs out. Therefore, they rely on medicine to forcefully increase their cultivation in hopes of a breakthrough opportunity.
白帝前辈，请看此剑。¤White Emperor senior, please look at this sword.
血剑宫么...御剑门事件中我曾一度重伤昏迷。而在我醒转后，身前站着的便是血剑宫的一众修士。¤During the incident with the Imperial Sword Sect, I was severely injured and fell unconscious. When I awakened, I saw a group of cultivators from the Blood Sword Sect standing before me.
不对，师祖说{FirstName}{xiongdi}是他{$shidi}是什么意思，那他岂不是成了我的师叔祖？¤No, the master said that {FirstName} {xiongdi} is his {$shidi}, what does that mean? Doesn't that make him my shishuzi?
他们自称用丹药暂缓了我的伤势，又询问了一些御剑门的相关问题。¤They claimed to have temporarily alleviated my injuries with medicinal pills, and also inquired about some issues related to the Imperial Sword Sect.
还好我千年来谨遵您老的教诲，不忘道心，不受利诱，如今也是宁州正道一方巨擘，没有丢了您的脸，哈！哈...哈...¤Fortunately, I have followed your teachings for a thousand years, remaining true to my heart and immune to temptation. Now, I am a prominent figure in the righteous path of Ningzhou and have not brought shame to your name. Ha! Ha... Ha...
于是也没想太多，在血薇的照料下好起来后甚至一同参习剑道，交流心得。¤So without thinking too much, after recuperating with Xue Wei's care, they even practiced sword dao together and exchanged their knowledge.
嗯？这难道是剑魂？我怎么没见过有剑魂的纯阳灵宝，{FirstName}{xiongdi}的这把剑真特别。¤Hmm? Is this the Sword Spirit? I've never seen a Pure Yang Spiritual Treasure with a Sword Spirit before. {FirstName} brother, your sword is really special.
此乃我独门化神秘术，名唤《定元咒》，料想师父已是将御剑门神通尽数传授，我也只有以此作为见面礼赠与{FirstName}{$shidi}了。¤This is my unique secret art of deity transformation called the Determining Spell. I believe that my master has already taught you all the divine skills of the Imperial Sword Sect, so I have brought this as a gift for {$shidi}'s introduction to me. 《》
这...这是《长生诀》的口诀！¤This...this is the 《mantra of the longevity》 art!
这被誉为九州第一剑仙的老人，竟是双目濡湿，那双能御剑护一州安宁的双手，此时也随之微微的颤抖着。之前逼出剑魂的气势，此时已然是荡然无存。¤The elderly man who was praised as the number one sword immortal in the Nine Continents had both eyes wet, and those hands that could control the sword to protect the peace of a state were now trembling slightly. The momentum that forced out the sword soul earlier was now completely gone.
白帝前辈尽管吩咐。¤Senior White Emperor, please give your orders.
一时间房间里安静得只剩下倪旭欣的低语声在回响。¤For a moment, the room was quiet, with only the murmurs of Ni Xuxin echoing.
你和他是什么关系。¤What is your relationship with him?
令人在意的痕迹？¤What are the traces that attract attention?
道的化身？¤Embodiment of Tao?
只是这监守天魔眼的玄道宗一向恃才傲物，旁人的建议恐是难以听取。不如{FirstName}{$shidi}前去天魔眼打探一番，调查一下天魔眼的禁制如今是何情况，之后我们再做其他打算。¤However, the Xuan Dao Sect, who guards the Heavenly Devil's Eye, has always been arrogant and dismissive of others' suggestions. It may be best for {FirstName}{$shidi} to investigate the Heavenly Devil's Eye and see what the current situation is regarding its restrictions. Then, we can make further plans.
你是从何处得知这段口诀的？？！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Where did you learn this mantra from?! {vpunch=10,0.5}
尤其是...天魔道。¤Especially the Heavenly Demon Cult disciple.
此事说来话长，不过现在想来，起因就是那柄魔剑。¤This story is a long one, but looking back now, it all started with that demon sword.
见过师祖，这位是{FirstName}{LastName}。¤I have met the master, and this is {FirstName}{LastName}.
哈哈哈，没想到隔了一千多年，我凌轩居然又有一位{$shidi}了。¤Hahaha, I never expected that after more than a thousand years, I, Ling Xuan, would have another {shidi}
多谢凌师兄。¤Thank you, Senior Brother Ling.
哦？小友找老朽有何事？¤Oh? What brings my young friend to me?
想来不仅仅是个误会，更有可能是有修士在中作梗。¤It is likely not just a misunderstanding, but also possible that cultivators are causing trouble in the middle.
对于倪旭欣而言，这轻微的颤抖所带来的震撼无异于受古树本体全力一击！¤For Ni Xuxin, the slight tremble brought no less shock than being hit by the full force of an ancient tree's true form!
白帝的语气陡然加重，让旁听的倪旭欣也是一愣，完全不明白发生了什么。纵是之前血河老祖来强抢戮仙剑，师祖也只是轻描淡写的将之赶走罢了，如今只是一段口诀，竟然能让一向温和的白帝不顾形象地激动了起来。¤The tone of White Emperor suddenly became heavier, making Ni Xuxin, who was listening to the side, also stunned, completely unaware of what was happening. Even though Patriarch Blood River came to forcibly take the Immortal Executing Sword before, the Master only casually drove him away. Now, with just a verse, it could make the usually gentle White Emperor excited and disregard his image.
至于之后如何反目成仇又被追杀，唉，不说也罢。¤As for how they later turned against each other and were pursued in a chase, sigh, it's best not to mention it.
倪旭欣本来想靠近看看这神奇的锈剑，也是被白帝的气势逼退好几步才勉强稳住身形，若是白帝全力施为又不知该会是一番怎样的情形。¤Ni Xuxin originally wanted to move closer to take a look at this miraculous rusted sword, but was forced back several steps by the White Emperor's imposing aura before barely managing to stabilize her footing. If the White Emperor were to exert all its strength, it's hard to say what kind of situation would arise.
如今古神教成功渗透到宁州古迹且抢走戮仙剑，恐怕盯上宁州的其他魔门也会按捺不住。¤Now that the Ancient God Sect has successfully infiltrated the Ning Province Ancient Ruin and snatched the Immortal Executing Sword, it is feared that other demonic sects targeting Ningzhou will not be able to contain themselves.
若是有机会，我定要作俑者血债血偿，以洗脱我御剑门的耻辱！¤If there is a chance, I vow to seek revenge with blood for blood as an atonement for the shame brought upon the Imperial Sword Sect!
故能长生...¤Therefore, able to attain eternal life...
反过来想想，我跟{FirstName}{xiongdi}关系这么好，那我不成了师祖同辈了嘛，父亲岂不是要叫我前辈了嘿嘿。¤Thinking about it, if my relationship with {FirstName}{xiongdi} is so good, then wouldn't I become a senior fellow disciple? Haha, and won't my father have to address me as such.
你闪身让开，他们一前一后走远了。¤You flashed and stepped away, they walked away one after the other.
还没等你做出反应，他们的动静已经向你靠近了。¤Before you could even react, their movements have already approached you.
{FirstName}道友，救我。¤{FirstName}Fellow daoist ，救我。
你看到在一个黑衣人和一只鲲一前一后向你奔来。¤You see a man in black clothes and a kun fish running towards you one after the other.
“轰~轰~”前方一阵阵剧烈的能量波动传来。¤Boom~ boom~ Intense waves of energy fluctuations came from the front.
看这动静应是有人在此地交手。¤I can see there's someone fighting here.
在下龙族长老，现被鲲族追杀，道友若是救我，我龙宫必有重谢。¤I am an elder of the Dragon Clan, currently being chased by the Kun Clan. Fellow daoist, if you save me, the Dragon Palace will surely reward you greatly.
去客栈找落单的修士询问也许会有收获。¤Going to the inn to inquire about lost cultivators may yield results.
若是什么？¤What if?
几乎？我听说被这漩涡卷入下场只有死。¤Almost? I've heard that if you're caught in this vortex, your fate is death.
（但若不是神魂受损，又会是什么地方出了问题呢？）¤(But if it's not the soul that's damaged, then what else could be the problem?)
好在他只是浑浑噩噩，却没有尝试伤害其他人，所以商会虽然放弃了对他的治疗，但还愿意指派几个低阶修士稍加照料，也算是留了一丝希望吧。¤Fortunately, he was just wandering around aimlessly and didn't try to harm anyone, so even though the trading guild gave up on treating him, they were still willing to assign a few low-level cultivators to take care of him, which can be considered as leaving a glimmer of hope.
要说有价值的信息，那图南漩涡的位置无疑是其中之一了。¤If we're talking about valuable information, then the position of the South Tu vortex is undoubtedly one of them.
这图南漩涡出现的时间不定，每次现世的时长也不尽相同。照理来说，此等异象已在这片海域为人所知多年，偶遇者、探访者岂止千百，要说有什么法宝、机缘等早也应该被掠夺殆尽。¤The appearance of the South Tu vortex is unpredictable, and the duration of each appearance varies. According to reason, such anomalies have been known to people in this sea area for many years. There have been countless encounters and explorations, and any artifacts or opportunities should have been plundered long ago.
确实如此，需要我付出什么来交换这信息？¤Is that so? What do I need to give in exchange for this information?
我们碎星商会曾对图南漩涡非常有兴趣，所以花了很多时间研究它的出现规律。不仅如此，我们还多次派遣修士前往探索，只是前往探索的修士几乎都失去音讯，并没有带来任何有价值的消息。¤Our Shattered Star Merchant Guild was very interested in the South Tu Vortex, so we spent a lot of time studying its appearance patterns. Moreover, we dispatched cultivators multiple times to explore it, but almost all the cultivators who went to explore it lost contact and didn't bring back any valuable information.
原来是{FirstName}道友，如今你在无尽之海可是各大势力都想交好的大能哈哈哈，有什么想知道的，我自是知无不言言无不尽。¤So you are fellow daoist {FirstName}, now in the endless sea, a great power that all major forces want to befriend. If you have any questions, I will speak without reservation and leave no question unanswered.
哈哈哈，道友在无尽之海名盛誉重，不知为此中安定做出了多少贡献。这区区图南漩涡的位置，我碎星商会自然是双手奉上。¤Hahaha, fellow daoist, your reputation is impressive in the endless sea. I wonder how much contribution you have made for this stability. As for the location of the South Tu Vortex, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild naturally offers our full support.
想打听什么？¤What do you want to inquire about?
不瞒你说，其实碎星商会在最后一次探索中是有一个幸存者的，但...¤To be honest, the Shattered Star Merchant Guild did have a survivor in the last exploration, but...
但直至今日，也未曾听说有人从这漩涡中捞得什么好处。道友可知为何？¤However, until now, no one has ever heard of anyone who has gained any benefits from this vortex. Fellow Daoist, do you know why?
图南海可有什么值得探索的异象？¤What kind of anomalies are worth exploring in the South Tu Sea?
{FirstName}道友，可是对于图南漩涡还有其他疑问？¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, do you have any other questions regarding the South Tu Whirlpool?
多谢道友相赠情报。¤Thank you, fellow Daoist, for gifting me with intelligence.
只是这漩涡危险至极，若是深入，即便以道友{$jingjie}修为恐怕也难以全身而退，还请多加小心。¤However, this vortex is extremely dangerous. Even if a fellow daoist with advanced cultivation like {$jingjie} were to enter, it would be difficult to come out unscathed. Please proceed with caution.
那个幸存者貌似只是处于一种浑浑噩噩的特殊状态，商会难道没有尝试治愈他吗？¤The survivor seems to be in a state of confusion and special condition. Hasn't the commercial association tried to cure him?
我需要五阶妖兽材料{color=#d0380a}金鹏羽{/color}，{color=#d0380a}金鹏眼{/color}，{color=#d0380a}金鹏喙{/color}和{color=#d0380a}金鹏腔骨{/color}各一份。¤I need materials for a fifth order spirit beast.{color=#d0380a}金鹏羽{/color}，{color=#d0380a}金鹏眼{/color}，{color=#d0380a}金鹏喙{/color}和{color=#d0380a}金鹏腔骨{/color}各一份。
最危险？怎么说。¤What's the most dangerous? How do I say it.
贵商会对图南海的异象可有了解？¤Does the Guishang Association have any knowledge of the anomalies in the South Tu Sea?
道友可有准备好妖兽材料？¤Fellow Daoist, do you have spirit beast materials prepared?
祝道友此次寻宝顺利。¤Wishing fellow daoist a successful treasure hunt.
那图南漩涡便是在图南海{color=#d0380a}东南部{/color}，按规律算来近期应是要现世了，若无其他事，建议道友可即刻启程。¤That South Tu Sea whirlpool is located in the {color=#d0380a}southeastern{/color} part of the South Tu Sea. According to calculations, it should appear in this world soon. If there are no other matters, I suggest my fellow daoist start the journey immediately.
那个幸存者怎样了？¤What happened to the survivor?
哎，我们何止是尝试，说是治疗神识伤害的各种手段都用尽了也不为过，只是...结果道友也看到了，商会最后选择了放弃。¤Ah, we have tried more than just attempting. It can be said that we have exhausted all means of treating soul sense damage, but... as fellow daoists have seen, the guild ultimately chose to give up.
但显然，于你而言，更重要的是信息本身，而不是信息对他，亦或是对碎星商会的意义。¤But obviously, for you, the most important thing is the information itself, rather than how it affects him or the significance for the Shattered Star Merchant Guild.
那图南漩涡便是在图南海{color=#d0380a}东南部{/color}，按规律算来近期应是要现世了，若无其他事，道友可即刻启程。¤Fellow Daoist, the South Tu Sea's vortex is located in the {color=#d0380a}southeastern{/color} region. According to calculations, it should appear in the near future. If there are no other matters, you can set off immediately.
呵呵，这图南漩涡虽说出名，但它的具体位置和出现规律嘛，能掌握的势力还是很少，恕我无权不能直接相告。若是...¤Hehe, although the South Tu vortex is famous, the exact location and appearance pattern are not widely known. I apologize for not being able to disclose it directly. If...
不错，正是之前我要求的妖兽材料。道友行事效率真是令人刮目相看。¤Not bad, this is indeed the spirit beast materials that I asked for earlier. Fellow daoist, your efficiency is truly impressive.
是，危险到深入的修士无关实力，尽皆陨落。若不是曾有人在漩涡出现时处于其外围，从而侥幸逃脱。甚至可能没人只有这异象的存在。¤Yes, the danger is such that even highly skilled cultivators risk falling. If it weren't for someone being on the outer edge of the whirlpool during a prior occurrence, they might not have escaped. It's possible that only the appearance of this anomaly exists.
听起来是挺危险的，但相比之下，我更关心它的位置在哪。¤It sounds quite dangerous, but in comparison, I am more concerned about where it is located.
需要什么材料？¤What materials do you need?
（我在海上的恶名估计碎星商会早有耳闻，还是不去招惹他们了。）¤(I'm sure the Shattered Star Merchant Guild has already heard of my notorious reputation on the sea, so I better not provoke them.)
这图南海中最出名也最危险的异象便是这图南漩涡了，道友可是对它感兴趣？¤Fellow daoist, are you interested in the most famous and dangerous phenomenon in the South Tu Sea, the South Tu Maelstrom?
他选择了停下来，而不是继续说下去，像是提到了什么碎星商会的隐秘，或是不想回顾的过去...¤He chose to stop instead of continuing, as if he mentioned some secrets of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild or a past he didn't want to revisit...
若是道友愿意以稀有妖兽材料来交换情报，我也好向商会交代。¤If fellow daoist is willing to exchange information with rare spirit beast materials, I will inform the guild accordingly.
那个幸存者如今就在客栈，不如道友自行前去调查吧。¤That survivor is currently at the inn, why not go investigate for yourself, fellow Daoist?
听说附近的海岛上最近有出现过元婴期金鹏，道友若是找不到这些妖兽材料，可以往那寻觅一番。¤I heard that a nascent soul golden peng appeared on a nearby island recently. Fellow daoists can search for these spirit beast materials there if they cannot find them elsewhere.
（按他这说法，那应当只是看似神魂受损，其实却不然，否则以碎星商会的手段，又怎会用尽各种灵丹尝试治疗之后，只能选择放弃。）¤(According to his words, it should only appear as if the soul was damaged, but in reality, it's not the case. Otherwise, with the methods of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild, how could they exhaust all kinds of spiritual pills to try to heal it, only to end up giving up?)
要说异象的话，图南漩涡应该算得上一个，只是这漩涡凶险万分，道友最好还是不要尝试探索比较好。¤If we're talking about abnormal occurrences, the South Tu Whirlpool can be considered one. However, this whirlpool is immensely dangerous. Fellow daoist, it would be best if you didn't attempt to explore it.
我还是去万宝楼问问吧。¤I'll go to the Ten Thousand Treasure House and ask.
就因为它过于危险？¤Is it because it's too dangerous?
你刚上禾山，便听见两人在争吵。¤As soon as you arrived at Mt. Harvest, you could hear two people arguing.
这是我禾山道的地盘，收点过路费不是天经地义？¤This is the territory of my Mt. Harvest Sect, isn't it only fair for me to collect some tolls from passersby?
你是五大派的修士？我们素来井水不犯河水，你们也没有理由多管闲事吧？¤Are you a cultivator from one of the Five Great Sects? We've always minded our own business and there's no reason for you to interfere, right?
人家禾山派本就不易，你给点过路费又有何妨？¤It's not easy for the Mt. Harvest faction, so what's the harm in giving them some travel expenses?
借五大派的名头招摇撞骗，可叫井水不犯河水？¤Using the reputation of the Five Great Sects to deceive others, but how can one avoid getting into trouble?
“算了，师父让我教训散修，自然有他的道理。”¤Nevermind, Master asked me to discipline the wandering cultivators, there must be a reason behind it. 
五大派究竟给过你们什么好处？我怎么没听说过？¤What benefits have the five major sects brought to you? Why haven't I heard of them?
自然是没有来往，但既然人家占理，我也不好坐视不管。¤Nature does not have emotions, but since they are justified, I cannot sit idly by.
哼，说多无益。¤Hmph, talking more is useless.
你怎知道五大派没给过我们好处？废话少说，不给就别想采药。¤How do you know that the Five Great Sects haven't given us any benefits? Stop talking nonsense, if you're not going to give it, don't expect to gather medicine.
……我不知道你在说什么。¤...I don't know what you're talking about.
“算了，师父总不会真的让我去帮邪修吧…”¤Forget it, Master wouldn't really make me help the demonic cultivators, right... 
收过路费也能占理？究竟是占了什么理？¤Can you justify demanding tolls? What exactly do you think you're entitled to?
“这应该就是师父提到的邪修吧。”¤This should be the demonic cultivator that Master mentioned.
“奇怪，师父说的散修到底是指禾山的邪修还是这个散修？究竟该帮谁？”¤Strange, I wonder if the 'wandering cultivator' that my master mentioned refers to the wicked cultivators from 'mt. harvest' or these other cultivators? Who should I help in the end?
好……我看你们就是一伙的，多说无益，出手吧。¤Well... I see that you are all working together. There's no point in talking any further. Let's fight.
你是五大派的修士？难道真与禾山派这群邪修有来往？¤Are you a cultivator from the Five Great Sects? Do you really have contacts with those demonic cultivators from Mt. Harvest Sect?
什么收过路费，你怎么不去收五大派的过路费？分明就是看我们散修好欺负。¤Why are you collecting tolls from us, but not from the Five Major Sects? Clearly, you are just picking on us wandering cultivators.
我们五大派不也都有自己的圈地？外人想进连过路费都没处给。如今禾山道的人只是收个过路费，又为何不占理？¤Our five major sects also have our own territories, and outsiders can't even enter without paying tolls. Now that the people of Mt. Harvest Sect are only collecting tolls, why is there any dispute?
我有什么好心虚的，苗矮你不要血口喷人！¤What do I have to be guilty of? Miao Ai, don't spray blood from your mouth!
好，请通羽前辈过目。¤Senior Tongyu, please take a look.
{FirstName}道友可是我找来的帮手，当然非同一般。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName} is the assistant I've sought out, and certainly not an ordinary one.
通羽前辈过誉了，若是没有您的帮衬，我也没这么容易对付栖云真人。¤Senior Tongyu flatters me too much. Without your help, it wouldn't have been so easy for me to deal with Immortal Taoist Quyun.
栖云，你竟敢对我的客人出手，是何用意？¤Qiyun, why did you dare to attack my guest, what is your intention?
多谢通羽前辈。¤Thank you Senior Tongyu.
不过心儿说的倒是没错，小友的实力真是让老夫讶异，竟能与金丹期修士短时间内不分伯仲。后生可畏啊。¤However, Little Xin's words were not wrong. Young friend's strength really surprised me. He was able to compete evenly with a Golden Core cultivator in a short period of time. Impressive.
至于金丹之下，更是只有那些传说中天赋异禀的怪物，才能与小友比试一番了。后生可畏啊。¤As for below the golden core, only those rumored to have exceptional talent can compete with young friends. The future generation is formidable indeed.
从今日起，{FirstName}小友以后便是我林府座上宾客，可以随意出入林府。¤Starting today, Young Friend {FirstName} is our honored guest at the Lin House and may come and go as desired.
通羽接过玉简检视起来，苗矮则紧盯着栖云，后者也只能面色不善的瞪着你，却毫无办法。¤Tong Yu took the jade slip and examined it. Miao Ai stared at Qi Yun, who could only glare back with an unpleasant expression but was powerless to do anything.
栖云，据这玉简记载，你吞没家族财产，接受冲虚散人贿赂，可是属实？¤According to this jade scroll, Hermit Chong Xu claims that you embezzled your family's assets and accepted bribes. Is it true, Qiyun?
还好倪旭欣没留在城中，不然找他帮忙肯定不如你靠谱，嘿嘿。¤Fortunately, Ni Xuxin didn't stay in the city. Otherwise, asking him for help definitely wouldn't be as reliable as relying on you, hehe.
哼！执迷不悟！¤Hmph! I'm not going to fall for that easily. You're still stubborn and refusing to see reason!
不过瞬息之间，你与栖云真人已交手数回合，但毕竟对方是金丹期强者，在他手下你恐怕是难以支撑更久。¤However, in the blink of an eye, you have already exchanged blows with the immortal taoist Quyun several times. However, he is an expert at the golden core stage after all, and it may be difficult for you to hold on for much longer under his hands.
心儿说的倒是没错，小友的实力真是让老夫讶异，纵是面对其他金丹前期的修士，估计也是难逢敌手。¤Little Xin's words are not wrong, Young Friend's strength really surprised me. Even if facing other cultivators in the early stage of Golden Core, it's probably hard to find an opponent.
即使如此，还请{FirstName}小友把玉简拿出来，让我们看看到底是怎么一回事。¤Even so, I kindly request young friend {FirstName} to take out the jade slip and let us see what exactly happened.
哼，什么以家族利益为先，我看是心虚罢。之前我还不知道这位小友为何出现在此，但现在可算是看明白了。¤Hmph, putting the family's interests first? I think you're just trying to hide your own greed. At first, I didn't know why this young friend was here, but now I have a clear understanding.
林沐心吐了吐舌头，但对你的感激与躲过逼婚的兴奋之情还是言溢于表。¤Lin Muxin stuck out her tongue, but her gratitude towards you and excitement about avoiding a forced marriage still overflowed from her words.
侥幸而已，若不是栖云真人此前已有暗伤，只怕没这么简单。¤It was just a stroke of luck. If it weren't for Immortal Taoist Quyun's previous hidden injuries, it probably wouldn't be so easy.
小友不必谦虚，年纪轻轻能与栖云斗上数个回合已是很难得了。¤Young friend, there's no need to be modest. Being able to spar with Qi Yun for several rounds at such a young age is already quite a rare talent.
小友实力强大还心性过人，实属难得。¤My young friend has strong power and exceptional morality, which is truly rare.
通羽前辈过誉了，若是没有您的帮衬，我早就败在栖云真人手下了。¤Senior Tong Yu exaggerates, if it weren't for your help, I would have already lost to Immortal Taoist Quyun.
苗矮上人强行收走栖云真人的法宝后，押着他往不知何处去了，只留你，通羽上人，林沐心三人在长老堂。¤After Venerable Miaoai forcibly took away Immortal Taoist Quyun's artifact, he took him away who knows where, leaving only you, Venerable Tongyu, and Lin Muxin in Elder Hall.
就在你思考如何是好时，通羽上人与苗矮上人却已是一前一后包夹栖云，令其难有较大动作，更不用说再次对你出手。¤Just as you were considering what to do, Venerable Tongyu and Venerable Miaoai had already sandwiched Qiyun from the front and back, making it difficult for him to move freely, let alone attack you again.
我栖云心系家族，怎可能私吞财产，不利家族！是这小贼污蔑我！¤My heart is with my family, how could I possibly embezzle their property and harm our family's interests! It must be this little thief slandering me!
呵呵，栖云时时刻刻以家族利益为先，财政大权交予你还真是没错。¤Hehe, Qiyun always puts the interests of the family first. It's not wrong to entrust the financial power to you.
大长老，你的客人闯入我的居所，还触动了禁制，先不说触犯了我的忌讳，甚至还可能窥视了家族机密，不尽早击杀，难道还等机密泄露出去？¤Grand Elder, your guest has entered my residence and even triggered the prohibition. Not only did they offend my taboos, but they may have also glimpsed our family secrets. If we don't eliminate them soon, the secrets may leak out.
嘻嘻，多谢道友，没想到你居然这么强，竟然可以在栖云长老手下撑这么久。¤Hehe, thank you fellow daoist! I never expected you to be so strong, being able to hold out against Elder Qiyun for so long.
哈哈哈，心儿说的是。那我们林家也不能让心儿的帮手白忙活一番。¤Hahaha, little Xin is right. Our Lin family can't let her helper work for nothing.
嘻嘻，没想到道友实力竟如此强横，竟能在短时间内击败栖云长老。¤Hehe, I didn't expect my fellow daoist's strength to be so formidable, to actually defeat Elder Qiyun within such a short period of time.
{FirstName}小友不必客气，那老朽便先去处理家事了，小友请自便。¤{FirstName} young friend, please don't stand on ceremony. This old man will go take care of some family matters first, so feel free to make yourself at home.
哈哈哈，心儿说的是。不过，我们林家可不能让小友白忙一趟。¤Hahaha, Little Xin's words. However, our Lin family cannot let Young Friend make a wasted trip.
咳咳...若不是我此前被二小姐用法宝击伤，哪轮得到你这小辈猖狂！¤*Cough cough*... If it weren't for the fact that I was injured by Miss Er's artifact earlier, how could a youngster like you dare to be so insolent in front of me!
哼，先不说你说小友曾进入你房间才含怒出手，这玉简可是有你的神识印记，{FirstName}小友要如何污蔑于你？还有什么要说的等家主闭关出来跟他说去吧！¤Hmph, never mind your claim that our young friend entered your room before you attacked in anger. This jade slip bears your soul sense imprint, how could {FirstName} be slandering you? If you have anything else to say, wait for our clan leader to finish his cultivation and speak to him then.
终于，栖云真人被你神通击破灵气护盾，匆忙中脚下一个不稳便跌坐在地。苗矮上人也是趁势压制栖云真人。¤Finally, your divine skill broke through the spiritual energy shield of Venerable Quyun, causing him to stagger and fall to the ground. Venerable Miaoai took advantage of the opportunity to suppress Venerable Quyun.
{FirstName}小友不必客气，这是你应得的。那老朽便先去处理家事了，小友请自便。¤{FirstName} Young friend, you don't have to be polite. This is what you deserve. The old man will go and take care of some family matters first. Please make yourself at home, young friend.
除此之外，{FirstName}小友以后便是我林府座上宾客，可以随意出入林府。¤Besides that, {FirstName} young friend will henceforth be a guest of honor in our Lin House and can freely come and go from the Lin House.
心儿，不得妄语。¤Little Xin, be careful with your words.
不过，他为了这炼妖散甚至放弃了诛仙剑和他师父的命令，说明他很是看重这炼妖散。¤However, he even gave up the Immortal Sword and his master's orders for the Demon Refining Powder, indicating that he highly values it.
相比起这些，更让我忧心的是玄骨。¤Compared to these, what worries me more is the Xuan Bone.
最后轩岚诺提及的玄骨的师傅...完了找机会打听一下这玄骨的师傅是何方人士吧。¤Finally, Xuan Lannuo mentioned the master of Xuan Gu. I need to find a chance to inquire about the identity of this master of Xuan Gu.
没想到这振兴玄古门徒做他人嫁衣啊。¤I didn't expect the revitalization of the Profound Ancient Sect to become a stepping stone for others.
这蜕凡化神哪有那么容易，一剂药石就可度过？这小子不把自己也变成不人不鬼的疯子就不错了。¤Transforming into a deity is not that easy, can it be achieved with just a pill or a stone? This guy would be lucky if he doesn't turn himself into a lunatic who's neither human nor ghost.
是的。¤Yes.
这一次他若是真的完善了炼妖散，那下一次见面说不定就是化神大能了，可就真是心腹大患了。¤If he really perfects the demon refining powder this time, then the next time we meet, he might have deity transformation powers. But that would be a huge problem.
这修真界本就是尔虞我诈，稍有不慎就是身死道消。相比起玄古门，那些豹麟兽又是何其无辜，就因为麒麟血惨遭横祸。¤In the world of cultivation, treachery and deceit are commonplace, and a small mistake can lead to one's death and destruction. Compared to the Profound Ancient Sect, the innocent leopard and unicorn beasts are nothing, as they were tragically caught up in the calamity due to their possession of unicorn blood.
你和一旁的众人见状不妙，也帮着出手，一连串五颜六色的法术向玄骨道人飞去，他也只好闪身避开。¤You and the people around you sensed the danger and joined in casting a series of colorful spells towards Xuangudao Ren. He had no choice but to dodge them.
突然一阵剧烈的震动打断了修士们的沟通，束缚那剑的锁链不知何时被人截断一条，被禁锢许久的煞气终于找到突破口，来势汹汹地向你们奔袭而来。¤Suddenly, a violent tremor interrupted the cultivators' communication. The binding chain that held the sword was cut off by someone at an unknown time. The evil energy that had been trapped for a long time finally found a breakthrough, and came rushing towards you with a fierce momentum.
在你运起功法，刚准备出手时，恒如真人也注意到了你。¤As you activate your technique and prepare to make a move, the expert known as Paragon Eternal Harmony also takes notice of you.
既然如此，只能竭力一搏了！¤Since that's the case, I can only exert all my efforts!
不如这样，我们事先约定好...¤Then how about we make a prearranged agreement beforehand...
长老，你没事...咕啊......！¤Elder，你没事...咕啊......！
恒如真人竟是古神教的卧底...你并不能估测他的实力，并没有贸然出手。¤The expert, Paragon Eternal Harmony, was actually an undercover agent for the Ancient God Sect... You cannot accurately estimate his strength, so do not act rashly.
恒如长老，你在做什么！还不快来巩固阵法！¤Elder Hengru, what are you doing? Hurry up and strengthen the array!
那位上前询问的化尘教修士以极其扭曲的姿势跌倒在地，而本应被煞气重伤的恒如真人却毫发无损地直立起身，手中还残存着一团诡异的灵气。¤The Shifting Sand Sect cultivator who had approached stumbled to the ground in an extremely contorted posture, while the supposed-to-be seriously injured paragon eternal harmony stood unscathed and upright, still holding on to a strange burst of spiritual energy.
{FirstName}道友，我们好歹师徒一场，你当真要与我为敌？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, we may have been master and disciple at some point, do you really want to stand against me?
既然魔剑已经现世，绝不能将它继续留在此地。否则若是被魔修偷走，后果不堪设想。¤Since the demon sword has already appeared in this world, it must not be left here any longer. Otherwise, if it is stolen by demon cultivators, the consequences would be unimaginable.
哼，没想到你命这么大。¤Hmph, didn't expect your luck to be so good.
一道人影倒飞出去，摔进了人群中，随即猛烈的煞气从阵法缺口源源不断地涌入。虽有几位修士反应迅速地合力填补空缺，但阵内的煞气依旧在其中乱窜，人群很快便陷入了混乱中。¤A figure was sent flying backwards, crashing into the crowd as a strong murderous aura continuously poured out from the gap in the array. Although several cultivators quickly reacted to fill the gap, the aura still ran amok within the array, causing the crowd to quickly fall into chaos.
看来你这些年也没有原地踏步，我今日还有要事处理，就先施舍你几日活头。¤It seems that you haven't been standing still these past few years. I still have important matters to attend to today, so I'll spare you for a few more days.
玄骨老祖，竟然是你！¤Patriarch Dark Bones, it's really you!
那是化尘教恒如长老一直带在身边的亲传弟子。¤That was the personal disciple that Elder Hengru of the Shifting Sand Sect always kept by his side.
巩固？哈哈哈哈，我这就来巩固！¤Consolidation? Hahaha, I'll come to consolidate right away!
玄骨？¤Mysterious Bones?
正在你试图和魏无极交谈时，众人的气氛已经开始剑拔弩张起来。¤While you were trying to chat with Wei Wuji, the atmosphere among the crowd had already become tense.
明河剑仙与玄伶仙子一同祭起飞剑，上百柄金色与蓝色的灵气飞剑迅速张开，将众人笼罩在内。但煞气攻势凶猛，阵法壁垒很快便出现了松动的迹象。¤Swordmaster Radiant River and Fairy Darkmind together activate their flying swords. Hundreds of golden and blue aura flying swords quickly spread out and shroud everyone within. However, the fierce evil energy attack caused the array barrier to show signs of loosening quickly.
你怎么了？¤What's wrong with you?
那古神教护法面色一冷，一道幽紫的寒芒自他手中射出，竟穿过阵法护壁径直向公孙季袭去。公孙季连施法决，驱动一个盾状法宝将寒芒抵住。¤The Ancient God Sect guardian's face turned cold and a dark-purple cold light shot out of his hand, piercing through the array's protective barrier and heading straight for Gongsun Ji. Gongsun Ji quickly cast a spell and used a shield-like artifact to block the cold light.
好在剩下的众人此时也暂时放下争辩，以极快的速度加入维护阵法的行列，煞气冲击下阵法发出五光十色的华彩，你紧盯着剑所在的方位，在一片绚烂的光中猛地发现了一位十分眼熟的修士。¤Fortunately, the remaining people temporarily put aside their debates, and quickly joined the ranks of maintaining the array. Under the impact of the killing intent, the array emitted colorful brilliance. You closely watched the position of the sword and suddenly discovered a cultivator who looked very familiar in a dazzling light.
不过...我巩固的当然是我古神教的大计了！！！¤However... what I am consolidating is definitely the great plan of my Ancient God Sect!!!
竟是戮仙剑...此剑绝对不能落入魔门手中！¤Surprisingly, it's the Immortal Executing Sword... This sword absolutely cannot fall into the hands of the demonic sect!
明河，结阵！¤Bright River, formation!
这玄机散人果然深不可测，应当也算是当时的旷世奇才，天道当真造化弄人。¤This mixed person xuanji is truly unfathomable. He must have been a rare talent in his time, and it seems that fate truly plays with us.
戮仙剑？！此剑相传不是在白帝手中？¤The Immortal Executing Sword?! Isn't this sword rumored to be in the hands of the White Emperor?
一口鲜血喷出，黑心老人强行接住了这一招，却已受了内伤。¤Spitting out a mouthful of blood, the Old Man Darkheart forcibly took on this attack, but he had already suffered internal damage.
多说无益，接招。¤Talking more is useless, come and attack.
多说无益，出手吧。¤There's no point in saying more, make your move.
尖锐的惨叫与恒如真人嚣张的笑声一同响起，你决定...¤The sharp screams and the arrogant laughter of Paragon Eternal Harmony resounded together, and you decided...
而守护你们的大阵正逐渐收缩，阵内的修士也都做好了发起进攻的准备。¤And the great formation that protects you is gradually shrinking, and the cultivators inside the formation are also ready to launch an attack.
戮仙剑在古神教长老的掌控下邪光大放，大殿内一时煞气暴涨，连空间都出现了些许不稳定的裂痕。他双手紧握剑柄，似乎在酝酿着什么。¤The Immortal Executing Sword, under the control of an Ancient God Sect Elder, emitted a sinister light. The atmosphere in the hall suddenly became tense, and even the space showed signs of instability. He tightly gripped the sword's hilt, seemingly brewing something.
你在衡州犯下如此行径，早就人尽皆知了。¤Your actions in Hengzhou have long been known by all.
能混入化尘教中卧底多年，此人果然实力不俗，他双目通红，显然已施展了魔门秘术，操控着飞沙与数人交战还能不落下风。¤As someone who has successfully infiltrated the Shifting Sand Sect for many years, this person's strength is indeed impressive. His eyes were bloodshot, indicating that he had already used some kind of demonic secret art to manipulate the Flying Sand and hold his own against several opponents.
你们终于来到地宫的最深处，粗粝石块拼筑成的大殿中最先映入眼帘的是一柄由煞气凝聚的大剑，那凝实的煞气甚至轻微地扭曲了周围的空间，恐怕愈往地下煞气愈浓厚的原因正是此物。¤You have finally arrived at the deepest part of the underground palace. The first thing that catches your eye in the large hall, built with rough stone blocks, is a huge sword made of condensed malevolent energy. The solid malevolent energy even slightly distorts the surrounding space. Perhaps this is the reason why the malevolent energy becomes stronger the deeper underground you go.
这柄剑被灵气极浓的锁链牢牢地栓在刻满阵法的圆形石台上，而锁链的另一端则固定在殿内厚朴的粗大支柱及精巧的彩色围栏上。¤This sword is firmly anchored to the circular stone platform engraved with an array, using a chain imbued with dense spiritual energy. The other end of the chain is fastened to the thick and sturdy pillars and intricate colored fences inside the hall.
明河老儿，这宝贝因当是有缘者得之，我看你分明就是自己贪图宝物，又何必找什么冠冕堂皇的理由。¤Minghe old man, this treasure should belong to someone who has fate with it. I can see that you are clearly just greedy for the treasure, so why bother finding any high-sounding excuses. 
紫芒一瞬间迸射出无数漆黑的藤蔓，黑心老人掌中凝聚一点青色冷光，凭空出现一道屏障将藤曼接住。¤In an instant, purple light burst forth and countless black vines shot out. Old Man Darkheart condensed a touch of cyan cold light in his palm, and a shield appeared out of thin air to intercept the vines.
你...你又突破了？¤Did you...did you have another breakthrough?
盾牌与寒芒一接触，公孙季便知不妙。只见还围着公孙季身子的另外两面盾牌越转越快，他的头上汗冒了出来，嘴角也沁出了血丝。¤As soon as the shield contacted the cold glimmer, Gongsun Ji knew things weren't looking good. Only then did he see the other two shields circling around his body spinning faster and faster. Sweat dripped down from his forehead and blood vessels popped out of the corners of his mouth.
那古神教护法不知使用了何种神通，在躁动的煞气中一把攫住漂浮在其中的魔剑。¤The Ancient God Sect guardian, using some sort of divine skill, snatched the demon sword floating amidst the restive evil energy.
他的一声大喝让所有人的注意瞬间集中在那里，你们光是抵御煞气便已耗去大半人力——那位化尘教修士几乎浸沐在狂暴的煞气中却毫发无损。¤His loud shout instantly made everyone concentrate there. You have already used up more than half of your energy just resisting the sinister energy that Shifting Sand Sect cultivator almost bathed in the savage sinister energy but didn't suffer any harm.
啊！！！！！¤Ah!!!!!!!
谁在那里！¤Who's there!
在场的诸位都是宁州一等一的高手，那魔修如何能偷得此剑，简直天方夜谭！¤All the people present are top-notch experts of Ningzhou. How could that demon cultivator possibly steal this sword? It's simply preposterous!
不错，此行竟能得到戮仙剑，真乃天道有眼，哈哈。¤Not bad, to be able to obtain the Immortal Executing Sword on this trip is truly a stroke of luck. The heavens must have smiled upon me, haha.
那古神教护法面色一冷，一道幽紫的寒芒自他手中射出，竟穿过阵法护壁径直向黑心老人袭去。¤The Ancient God Sect guardian's face turned cold. A faint purple cold light burst out from his hand and penetrated the array's protective barrier, heading straight towards old man darkheart.
哦？想不到此地还有人知晓我的名号？¤Oh? I didn't expect someone here to know my name?
我自然会活得比你更久。¤I will naturally live longer than you.
恒如真人掌心的灵气团逐渐扩大，在阵法内游荡的煞气竟逐渐被吸收进去，不过两息间那光团便凝成人头大小，而后被他掷进维持阵法的几位修士中。¤The spiritual energy ball in the palm of Paragon Eternal Harmony gradually expanded, gradually absorbing the evil energy wandering within the array. Within two breaths, the ball condensed to the size of a human head, and was then thrown by him into the cultivators maintaining the array.
若是魔剑还没取出，我们就先争吵拼斗起来，实在有些可笑。¤If the demon sword hasn't been taken out yet, it's ridiculous for us to argue and fight.
你将灵力汇于双目，仔细地观察着那锁链，发现其上竟以阴文刻录着许多你识不清的上古文字。¤You gather your spiritual energy in your eyes and carefully observe the chains, discovering that there are many ancient inscriptions in Yin script that you cannot recognize.
诸位，且不说这魔剑还未解除封印，即便能够取下，想必也不是人人都能驾驭的了。¤Everyone, let's not even discuss the fact that this demon sword has not been released from its seal yet. Even if it can be removed, I'm sure not everyone will be able to control it.
哼，我今日还有要事处理，就先施舍你们几日活头。¤Hmph, I still have important matters to attend to today, I'll spare you for a few days.
在你犹豫之时，几位修士已祭出法宝冲上前去，与恒如真人战成一团。¤As you hesitated, several cultivators have already summoned their artifacts and rushed forward to engage in battle with the paragon eternal harmony.
我说，老头儿，这剑或许与先前我们遇到的有些关联，你认识他刻的那些文字吗？¤I said, old man, this sword may be related to what we encountered earlier. Do you recognize the characters engraved on it?
这剑煞气四溢，分明就是当年魔修遗落在此地的魔剑！今日我定要将其带回宗门，妥善处置。¤This sword is full of demonic aura, clearly the demon sword that was abandoned by the demonic cultivator in this place! Today, I must take it back to my clan and handle it properly.
这两个笨蛋还是交由白帝楼发落吧。¤Let's leave these two fools to be dealt with by the White Emperor Pavilion.
伤人的树妖终于灰飞烟灭，匪徒却也都被融成了烂泥。懒得管这摊黑吃黑残局的你，重新上路。¤The harmful tree demon finally perished into nothingness, while the criminals were all melted into mud. You, who didn't want to bother with this messy situation of black eating black, continued on your journey.
没想到这树妖修为竟如此高深，你也再顾不得什么斩妖除魔，头也不回的跑了...¤I didn't expect the cultivation of this tree demon to be so profound. You couldn't care less about killing demons and getting rid of them, and ran away without looking back...
精彩，精彩！{FirstName}道友的神通真是让在下大开眼界。宁王府找的便是你这样能人，你可愿意随我去面见宁王？¤Wonderful, wonderful! Fellow Daoist {FirstName}'s divine skill truly broadens my horizons. Ning King's Manor is seeking individuals such as yourself. Are you willing to accompany me to meet the Ning King?
能为宁王效劳是在下的荣幸。¤It is my honor to serve Ning King.
他收起扇子朝你拱了拱手，虽唇角含笑但面上阴鸷之色仍存，像是故作轻松。¤He put away his folding fan and arched his hand towards you. Although there was a smile on his lips, the gloomy expression still lingered on his face, as if he was putting on a facade of ease.
（为了荣华富贵去替宁王卖命，恐怕我仙途就于此断送了...）¤(In order to seek fame and wealth by serving Ning King, I'm afraid my path to immortality will end here...)
精彩，精彩！金道友的神通真是让在下大开眼界。宁王府找的便是你这样能人，你可愿意随我去面见宁王？¤Amazing, amazing! Fellow Daoist Jin's divine skill has truly broadened my horizons. Ning King's Manor has sought someone as capable as you. Are you willing to accompany me to meet the Ning King?
哈哈哈，能为宁王效劳是在下的荣幸，请！¤Hahaha, it is my honor to serve Ning King. Please!
道友法力高超，金某佩服至极。¤Fellow Daoist's magical powers are superb, Jin Mou admires them greatly.
他收起扇子朝你拱了拱手，虽唇角含笑，却流露出几分讥讽。这般貌是心非的人修真界并不少见，你心中厌恶，自然也不与他多说。¤He put away his folding fan and arched his hand towards you, with a smile on his lips, but with a hint of mockery. Such people with deceptive appearances are not uncommon in the cultivation world, and you feel disgusted in your heart, naturally not wanting to say much to him.
你只觉得仿佛被毒蛇盯上一样令人生厌，于是草草应付几句了事。¤You felt as if you were being stared at by a venomous snake, making you nauseous, so you dealt with it in a few words.
你看得通透，人间金钱权利不能打动你分毫。只有坚守道心，方能在漫漫仙途中觅得长生。¤You see through everything, worldly wealth and power cannot move you in the slightest. Only by holding onto your righteous heart can you seek eternal life on the long path of immortals.
这位道友请随我离开秘境吧，你的测试已经失败了。¤Fellow Daoist, please follow me out of this secret realm. Your test has already failed.
你仔细观察这些散落一地的藤蔓，藤蔓内的经络不断向外渗出鲜红色的，仿佛血液一般的液体。¤You carefully observe these scattered vines on the ground, and the meridians inside the vines continuously seep out a bright red liquid, like blood.
你下意识的尝试用这种新的运气方式施展木系神通，召唤而来的藤蔓果真与平日不同，似乎也具备了某种吸人精血的能力！¤You instinctively tried to use this new way of using luck to display the divine skill of the wood element. The summoned vines were different from usual, seemingly possessing the ability to absorb human blood!
这魔藤果然神奇，韧性强又不怕烈火炙烤，若是用来炼器简直是再好不过了。¤This vine demon is truly extraordinary, with strong toughness and no fear of fiery roasting. If used for refining, it would be simply unparalleled.
谁知这藤蔓在火焰的炙烤下竟丝毫没有要被烧毁的样子，反倒像是经过了炼制一般，光泽更胜以往。¤Who knew that this vine would not be burned by the flames, instead it seemed to have gone through a refinement, shining more than ever before.
领悟神通：{color=#d0380a}汲血藤{/color}¤Enlightenment divine skill: {color=#d0380a}Blood Leeching Vine{/color}
没想到这次因祸得福，也算是不虚此行了。¤I didn't expect to benefit from a misfortune this time, it can also be considered a worthwhile trip.
你隐约感觉这种植物的经络走向似乎与修真者灵气的运行方式有异曲同工之妙，看来这种能够吸人精血的能力便是与它有关。¤You vaguely feel that the meridian path of this plant seems to be similar to the way a cultivator's spiritual energy flows. It seems that its ability to absorb human essence blood is related to this.
你隐约感觉这种植物的经络走向似乎与修真者灵气的运行方式有异曲同工之妙，但其中具体的玄妙之处却难以领悟。¤You vaguely sense that the meridians of this plant seem to be similar to the way spiritual energy flows in cultivators, but the specific mysteries are difficult to enlighten.
你用同样的方法烤制了散落一地的藤蔓，然后心满意足的将它们统统收入囊中。¤You used the same method to bake the scattered vines on the ground, and then satisfiedly collected them all into your bag.
你捏了个手印，召来火焰想要将这些剩余的藤蔓烧个干净，以免留下祸害。¤You formed a hand seal and summoned flames, intending to burn these remaining vines to prevent further harm.
被你切得四分五裂的藤蔓在地上翻动着，看上去还没有死透。你想起藤蔓能够吸人精血的诡异能力，不禁也感到有些后怕。¤The vine that was cut into pieces by you wriggles on the ground, it seems like it's not entirely dead yet. You recall the eerie ability of the vine to suck human essence and can't help feeling a little frightened.
你尝试领悟刚刚幻象所施展的法术，但始终无法领悟其中的要领，只能先放弃了。¤You attempt to comprehend the spell that was cast in the illusion just now, but you cannot seem to grasp the essence of it. In the end, you can only give up for now.
也不知这是门内哪位前辈所创的法术，当真精妙。¤I don't know which senior within the sect created this spell, but it truly is exquisite.
不愧是幻雾阵，看来我还要在修炼些时日。¤Impressive Mirage Mist Array. It seems I still need to cultivate for some time.
领悟法术：{color=#d0380a}青蛇劲{/color}¤Enlightenment Spell: {color=#d0380a}Azure Snake Art{/color}
刚刚那道幻象所用的法术似乎暗藏玄机...¤The spell used in that illusion just now seemed to conceal a mystery...
你在脑海中不断推演刚刚幻象所施展的法术，终于成功领悟了其中的要领。¤You constantly deduced the spell that was just cast in your mind, and finally succeeded in enlightening yourself on its essence.
钟道友，路上小心。¤Fellow Daoist Zhong, be careful on the road.
原来是{FirstName}道友，我虽久居麟庙却也对你早有耳闻了。¤So it turns out you are fellow daoist {FirstName}. Although I have resided in Lin Temple for a long time, I have also heard about you long ago.
我此行匆忙身无长物，这几枚血菩提还请{shidi}收下。¤In my hurried journey, I have nothing of value to offer. Please accept these few blood bodhi fruits, {shidi}.
说来也是我大意，险些着了他们的道。¤It was also my carelessness that I almost fell for their trick.
道友身受重伤可是需要我送你回去？¤Fellow daoist, you are seriously wounded. Do you need me to take you back?
一株草药向你飞来。¤A herb flies towards you.
一个少年出现在他身后，仅仅一击就洞穿了他的胸口。¤A young man appeared behind him, and with just one blow, pierced through his chest.
平时看不出来，这傻鸟带着天蟾子竟然也有如此遁速必是精于遁术的妖修，而天蟾子刚刚迸发出恐怖的妖气已是远超一般元婴妖兽。¤Normally, it's not obvious, but this stupid bird carrying a heavenly toad must be a demonic cultivator with excellent speed and mobility. And the heavenly toad, which just released its terrifying demonic energy, is far more powerful than the average nascent soul spirit beast.
道友，此番凶险多亏你了。¤Fellow daoist, thanks to you, we have survived this dangerous situation.
钟师兄，路上小心。¤Senior brother Zhong, be careful on the way.
我就先行回去疗伤了。¤I'll go back to heal first.
我之前有事来此处理，但是抵达此地时却是中伏了。¤I came here before for some business, but was ambushed when I arrived.
{FirstName}长老，此番凶险多亏你了。¤Elder {FirstName}, thanks to you, we have survived this dangerous situation.
远处两道强悍的气息飞速接近。¤Two powerful auras were fast approaching from the distance.
钟师兄怎么会被古神教的宵小困于此地。¤How could senior brother Zhong be trapped here by the minions of the Ancient God Sect?
客气了，道友为何会被这古神教的妖人在此伏击？¤Fellow daoist, why were you ambushed here by the demonic cultivators of the Ancient God Sect?
平时叫你好好练功，一天天就知道倒腾炼器。现在神识被封发挥不出来了吧？¤Usually I tell you to practice diligently, but all you do is spend your days tinkering with refining tools. Now that your soul sense has been sealed, you won't be able to use it, will you?
言毕，三人化作一到遁光直奔离火门方向。¤After speaking, the three of them transformed into a single beam of light and flew towards the direction of the Fire Gate Sect.
阿焰，我们来啦！！！¤Ah Yan, we're here!!!
这只鹤虽是元婴初期但看近的速度必是精于遁术的妖修，而那只蛤蟆刚刚迸发出恐怖的妖气已是远超一般元婴妖兽。¤Although this crane is early nascent soul stage, its speed at close range must be a spirit beast skilled in mobility. As for that toad, the terrifying demonic energy it just burst out with has already surpassed that of an ordinary nascent soul spirit beast.
谁？！！¤Who?!!
人我带走了啊，你先和那傻鸟回去吧。¤I have taken the person away, you go back with that foolish bird first.
多谢，道友出手相救。在下离火门绝焰堂大长老钟焰，敢问阁下姓名？¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for lending a helping hand. I am Zhong Yan, the grand elder of the Absolute Flame Hall in the Fire Gate Sect. May I ask for your name?
（看来这离火门内部也是....）¤(It seems that even within the Fire Gate Sect...)
我之前得知此地有人搜捕豹麟兽，但是抵达此地时却是中伏了。¤I had previously learned that someone was hunting for the Panther Lin Beast in this area, but when I arrived here, I fell into an ambush.
多谢，{shidi}出手相救。¤Thank you, {shidi} for helping me out.
不必了，此阵一破我就通知同门前来接我了。¤No need, once this formation breaks, I'll notify my fellow disciples to come pick me up.
哼，三脚猫的本事也想学人做英雄。¤Hmph, a three-legged cat wants to learn how to be a hero like humans.
离火门也是卧虎藏龙啊。¤The Fire Gate Sect is also a place full of hidden talents.
我拖住他，你快走！¤I'll hold him back, you go quickly!
不必了，此阵一破我就通知傻鸟他们前来接我了。¤No need, once this formation is broken, I will notify the fools to come and pick me up.
三脚猫的本事也想学人劫道？\n¤Does a three-legged cat also want to learn how to rob people on the path of cultivation?
道友目前在千流岛已名声卓越，出于对道友实力的慎重考虑，我们的赔率将会下调些许，望道友见谅。¤Fellow Daoist, your impressive reputation precedes you on Myriad Rivers Island. Due to our careful consideration of your abilities, our odds will be slightly reduced. We hope for your understanding.
凭借记忆你来到通往圣坛的门前，正准备破阵时，从旁突然冲出几个修士将你团团围住！¤Relying on your memory, you arrived at the entrance leading to the sacred altar. Just as you were about to break formation, several cultivators suddenly rushed out from the side and surrounded you!
幸好这些修士的修为并不高深，你三下五除二解决掉这些修士，不禁想到他们的行动或许并非出自本愿，也许在什么地方有人正操纵着他们向你所在的方向赶来。¤Luckily, these cultivators didn't have a high level of cultivation. You quickly dealt with them and couldn't help but wonder if their actions were not of their own volition. Perhaps someone was controlling them and sending them in your direction.
这阵法有些深奥，我还是想想别的办法吧。¤This array is quite profound. I think I'll consider other options.
{w}{w=0.5}厚重的大门上刻着繁复的阵法花纹，看来其上应杂糅了多个精妙的阵法，你选择...¤The heavy {w}门{w=0.5} is inscribed with intricate {w}array{w=0.5} patterns, suggesting the fusion of multiple ingenious formations. You decide to...
凭着记忆，你悄无声息地潜入圣地深处。¤Relying on your memory, you quietly infiltrate the depths of the holy land.
此处阵法深奥复杂，你平日积累的阵道学识也不足以覆盖阵法的全貌，你在此花费了一些时间。¤The array here is profound and complex. Even with your accumulated knowledge of array dao, it is not enough to fully comprehend the array. It took you some time to study it.
经过方才与煞魔的斗争，前来此地的修士伤亡众多。方才几位落单的修士皆成了煞魔的爪下亡魂，你们心中知晓此地凶险无比，单独行动恐怕风险极大。¤After the battle with the evil demon just now, many cultivators who came to this place were injured or killed. Several cultivators who got separated just now became souls under the evil demon's claws. You know in your hearts that this place is extremely dangerous. It is probably very risky to act alone.
好在此地构造并不复杂，只有一条略显陡峭的石梯蜿蜒向下，大概沿着台阶走上几圈便可到达地底，所以并未再出现方才那样争先冒险的情况。¤Fortunately, the construction here is not too complicated. There is only a slightly steep stone staircase winding down, and after walking several circles along the steps, one can reach the underground. Therefore, there was no longer a situation of rushing to take risks like just now.
呼...哈...！呼......¤Hoo...Ha...! Hoo...
百里奇正全心全意地钻研体术，一时没有注意到你的存在。¤Baili Qi was completely absorbed in studying physical techniques and didn't notice your presence for a while.
这宁州古迹已有万年历史，其中定有使我体术更近一层的功法神通，若能顺便寻几件宝物更是锦上添花，哈哈！¤This ancient ruin in Ning Province has a history of 10,000 years, and it must contain techniques and divine skills that will bring me closer to the next level in my martial arts. If I can also find a few treasures along the way, that would be even better, haha!
我这伤还得有一些时日才能养好，这段时间，你便与老夫一同住在这破庙里。¤My injury still needs some time to heal, so during this period, you will live with me in this broken temple.
是,晚辈记下了！¤Yes, I remember it!
说着，他拿出了一大块红棕色的琥珀，其中藏着一根大得夸张的羽毛——整体看就像一柄金灿灿地单锋剑，细看之下，一根根羽片都如松针一般，的确不似凡物。¤As he spoke, he took out a large piece of reddish-brown amber, which contained an exaggeratedly large feather it looked like a golden single-edged sword as a whole. Upon closer inspection, each feather was like a pine needle, truly not like an ordinary object.
太贵了，我最多出...¤It's too expensive, I can only offer...
可惜我并没有那么多灵石…¤Unfortunately, I don't have that many spirit stones...
这价格我接受不了，最低...最低也得要六千灵石！¤I can't accept this price, at a minimum...at a minimum I would need 6,000 spirit stones!
道友请留步！¤Fellow daoist, please stay a moment!
……一万灵石，只能作装饰，你怎么不去抢？¤...Ten thousand spirit stones, only suitable for decoration. Why don't you go and rob them?
咳咳，是这样的，我是蓬莎岛的商人，遇到了致命的海上乱流，货物几乎全部都丢了，就只有这个我一直贴身保存……¤Ahem, it's like this. I am a merchant from Pongsha Island. I encountered a deadly turmoil at sea, and almost all my goods were lost. This is the only thing I have kept by my side...
就暂且相信你一回。¤Just believe you for now.
这可是古代神兽别的羽毛，怎么可能仅作装饰？就算你转手卖出去，也不见得只能卖这么点…¤This is a feather from an ancient divine beast, how could it only be used as decoration? Even if you sell it to someone else, it can definitely fetch a higher price than this…
一千灵石！道友莫非是在拿我寻开心？¤One thousand spirit stones! Fellow daoist, could it be that you're trying to make a mockery of me?
这...八千便八千吧，若非我急着用钱，可不会这样贱卖给道友。¤Fellow daoist, eight thousand it is then. If I wasn't in urgent need of the money, I wouldn't have sold it to you at such a low price.
可惜…我再去找别人吧…¤Unfortunately... I'll go look for someone else again...
我对这种东西没有兴趣，道友还是另寻他人吧。¤I have no interest in this kind of thing, fellow daoist. You may want to find someone else.
怎么样，这可是远古神兽鲲鹏的羽毛，虽然只是化石，但单做装饰用也是非常气派了。现在我急需用钱，就便宜你一回。一万灵石，这块化石便是你的了。¤How about it? This is a feather from the ancient divine beast Kunpeng, although it's just a fossil, it's still very impressive as a decoration. Now, I urgently need money, so I'll give you a discount. Ten thousand spirit stones, and this fossil is yours.
那便多谢道友了！¤Thank you, fellow daoist!
这...五千便五千吧，若非我急着用钱，可不会这样贱卖给道友。¤Fellow Daoist, let's make it 5,000 then. If I wasn't in need of money, I wouldn't sell it this cheap to you.
我派的开山祖师金虹剑仙，实则是昔日九州飞升的第一人。可惜如今...¤The founder of our sect, the Radiant Sword Immortal who pioneered the way, was actually the number one person to ascend in the Nine Provinces in the past. Unfortunately...
千绝天赋异禀，若是能耐下性子来修炼，将来成就不可限量。¤With innate talent surpassing hundreds, if one could patiently cultivate, the future achievements would be limitless.
原来阁下竟是少主的旧识，今日少主并未到坊市来，想来或许是在城中其他地方歇憩。¤It turns out that you are an old acquaintance of the young master. The young master did not come to the marketplace today, perhaps he is resting in other parts of the city.
不知你们少主现今去了何处，听管家说他也跟随商队来了蓬莎岛，但我却没看见他的身影。¤I don't know where our young master is now. The steward said that he followed the caravan to Pongsha Island, but I haven't seen him yet.
人类...你,,,你竟敢毁我大阵！¤Human...you...how dare you destroy my grand formation!
你对于阵道一窍不通，虽然猜测此处可能布下了阵法，但还是一头雾水，不知要从何处下手调查。¤Although you have guessed that there might be an array set up here, you are completely ignorant about Array Dao and have absolutely no knowledge about it. You are constantly puzzled, clueless about how to start investigating.
这里应当是{$Var}阵...¤This should be the {$Var} formation...
你虽对于阵法一道有所涉猎，但眼前这处阵法的玄妙复杂却远超你的想象。¤Although you have some knowledge about array technique, the complexity and mystery of the array in front of you far exceeds your imagination.
像这样的四象阵法一般都是由四处阵法组成。东面的青龙阵，北面的是玄武阵，西面的白虎阵和南面的朱雀阵...¤A formation like this Four Elephants Array is usually made up of four different formations. The Azure Dragon Formation is located in the east, the Black Tortoise Formation in the north, the White Tiger Formation in the west, and the Vermilion Bird Formation in the south.
灵纹...难道是阵法么？¤Spirit pattern... Could it be an array?
好，成了！¤Okay, it's done!
一番尝试后，你最终确认，仅凭目前对阵道的感悟，是绝不可能破除这座大阵的。¤After some attempts, you finally confirm that with your current enlightenment on array dao, it is impossible to break through this grand array.
灵纹...还有这异样的灵力波动...是四象聚灵阵？¤Spirit patterns...and this unusual spiritual energy fluctuation...is it the Four Elephants Gathering Spirit Array?
只需任意破除其中一个小阵，便可使大阵的作用大幅降低。但唯有找到大阵的阵眼藏在哪一处小阵之中，才能{color=#d0380a}一次{/color}将整座大阵破除。¤All that is needed is to break one of the small formations, which will significantly reduce the effect of the large formation. However, only by finding the formation eye of the large formation hidden within one of the small formations can the entire large formation be broken {color=#d0380a}at once{/color}.
这布阵手法我竟从未见过...想必这九幽数千年来也是有所{color=#d0380a}奇遇{/color}，不知从哪里得来的上古传承...¤I've never seen such a formation technique before... It must have had a wonderful encounter in the thousands of years of its existence, perhaps obtaining an ancient inheritance from somewhere...
灵纹的光芒黯淡下来，整个海底洞窟开始剧烈抖动起来，无数黑色的烟雾从各处缝隙中涌现，几息之间便将你笼罩在其中。¤The glow of the spirit patterns dimmed, and the entire underwater cave began to shake violently. Countless black smoke emerged from various cracks and crevices, enveloping you within a matter of moments.
能够在海底布下达到宗门规格的聚灵大阵，看来这九幽大圣对于布阵的造诣颇深啊。¤It seems that the nine underworld saints have a deep understanding of formations, as they were able to set up a spiritual gathering array with the standards of a sect in the depths of the sea.
你想上前阻拦，那幡便分出几束灵魂来阻挡你。顷刻间，万魂幡便提前完成了祭炼，一股化神强度的威压袭面而来。¤If you attempt to advance, the banner will split into several soul strands to block you. In an instant, the Ten Thousand Soul Banner completed its sacrifice and a might suppression of deity transformation level rushed towards you.
倒是你不由分说便对我出手，又作何解释？¤What explanation do you have for attacking me without giving me a chance to explain?
见你并没有罢手的意思，她身形暴退，迅速吃下几颗丹药，随即将之前使用的那把幡祭出，其中灵魂朝万魂幡倾泻而出。¤Seeing that you had no intention of stopping, she quickly retreated and swallowed several pills, then immediately used the banner she had previously used and poured her soul into the ten thousand soul banner.
既然双方皆有不义，此事便到此为止，道友请回罢。¤Since both sides acted unjustly, let's stop here. Fellow Daoist, please leave.
你眼看不是我的对手，便想就这么算了？¤You don't see me as your opponent, so you want to give up just like that?
那这万魂幡要如何招来你师妹元神？¤How will you summon your sister's yuan god with this ten thousand soul banner?
你师妹是何人？¤Who is your sister ?
此邪器就算再重要，终究也是为自己所用。¤No matter how important this evil artifact is, it is ultimately for one's own use.
此事说出去旁人也未必会信。放心，本座绝不向外人透露半个字。¤This matter, even if spoken, others may not necessarily believe it. Rest assured, this seat will not reveal a single word to outsiders.
看来她无论如何也是不肯交出这万魂幡了...¤It seems that she is not willing to give up the Ten Thousand Soul Banner no matter what...
罢了。这下半部分名为十阎归魂诀，万魂幡便是其中提到的必备之物。¤Alright. The second half is called the Ten Yama Soul Retrieval Technique, and the Ten Thousand Soul Banner is a necessary item mentioned in it.
你将阴魂岛上的事情大致同她描述了一遍。半晌，她竟说不出一句话来。¤You roughly described the situation on Ghost Island to her. After a while, she couldn't even say a word.
自然是受到了牵连，才被迫出手。¤Nature was implicated and forced to take action.
前辈有所误会，这万魂幡里共有九千五百二十八魂，没有一个是靠杀戮得来的无辜冤魂。¤Senior has misunderstood, there are a total of nine thousand five hundred and twenty-eight souls in the Ten Thousand Soul Banner, none of which were obtained through infamy and killing innocent souls.
她眉头紧皱，咬紧牙关，似乎在做一个艰难的决定。¤She frowned, gritted her teeth, as if making a difficult decision.
若同时掌握上下两个部分，传言能够凭空复活往生之人。¤If you simultaneously master the upper and lower parts, it is said that you can resurrect those who have passed away out of thin air.
那在下便在此等候前辈归来了。¤I will wait here for the senior's return.
罢了，前辈并未见过她，想必也不能理解吧。¤Nevermind, senior has never seen her before, so he probably wouldn't understand anyway.
其实我此次前来，主要是受人之托，解决玄冥海魂体失踪一事。¤Actually, the main reason why I came this time was to solve the issue of the disappearance of soul bodies in the Deep Black Sea, as requested by someone.
罢了，既然你不肯交出万魂幡，本座便不逼你了。¤Fine, since you won't hand over the Ten Thousand Soul Banner, I won't force you.
…你帮阴冥海上那些魂体做事？他们许给你什么好处？¤Do you help with the tasks of the soul bodies in the Deep Yin Sea? What benefits do they promise you?
此言倒在你的意料之外。¤This statement is beyond your expectations.
我若真能得到此物，借你一阅又有何妨。¤If I really can get this thing, there's no harm in borrowing it for you to read.
上半部分可助飘荡之元神重铸肉身，下半部分可助空洞之肉身召回元神。¤The upper half can assist in the reconstruction of the physical body for the drifting yuan god, while the lower half can assist in the recalling of the yuan god for the hollow physical body.
你若愿意帮我，我万魂殿愿出双倍好处。¤If you're willing to help me, my Ten Thousand Soul Hall is willing to give double benefits.
“算了，此事不问也罢……“¤Nevermind, it's better to not ask about this matter...
这是自然，我们虽然修鬼魂类功法，但大多都是在战场上搜集而来，绝不会滥杀无辜。¤This is nature. Although we cultivate ghost and soul techniques, most of them are collected on the battlefield. We never indiscriminately kill innocent people.
以你所修炼功法，应该不难看出剑中也寄宿着一位魂体吧？¤With the technique you're cultivating, it shouldn't be difficult to sense the presence of a soul body residing within the sword, right?
多说无益，有什么底牌，直接亮出来罢。¤Talking more is useless. If you have any ace cards, just show them.
倒是有点能耐。¤He does have some ability.
不过还有一事本座有些兴趣，你之前提到的上半部分，莫非叫做逆天造化术？¤However, there is still a matter that I am interested in. The upper half that you mentioned earlier, is it called defying good fortune technique?
只可惜……上半部分在万年前便被奸人所盗，下落不明。¤Unfortunately...the first half of it was stolen by a traitor in the ancient times and its whereabouts are unknown.
那要如何复生？¤How to be reborn?
听到这个问题，她低下了头，目光也不再直视你。¤Upon hearing this question, she lowered her head and no longer met your gaze.
她低下头，面色阴沉了起来。¤She lowered her head, her face darkened.
如此匪夷所思之事，你若说不出个所以然来，要本座如何信得过你？¤Such an unbelievable event, if you cannot provide a logical explanation, how can I trust you?
但这十阎归魂诀却能以肉身为锚点，从万魂幡内寻找与其相似的元神碎片，重新拼凑出一个类似的元神。¤But the Ten Yan Soul Returning Technique can use the physical body as an anchor point to search within the Ten Thousand Soul Banner for similar fragments of the Yuan God, and reassemble a similar Yuan God.
你要救谁与我何关，我也有那不得不救之人。¤Who you save is none of my concern, I also have people that I must save.
我万魂殿至高法门便是这复活之法，分为上下两个部分。¤My Wan Hun Dian's supreme method of resurrection is divided into two parts - upper and lower.
而且我祭炼此幡，根本不是为自己所用，而是想复活我的师妹。¤Moreover, I refined this banner not for my own use, but to resurrect my Sister.
据教史记载，以此法拼凑出的元神，无论是性格、喜好、善恶，都与本人几乎没有区别。¤According to the historical records of the teachings, the Yuan God formed through this method is almost indistinguishable from the person in terms of personality, preferences, and morality.
你想上前阻止，却遭到之前两个带路喽啰的阻拦。¤You want to stop ahead, but are hindered by the two lackeys who led the way earlier.
前辈，你若得到了这逆天造化术，可否借我一阅？我愿用全部家当作为交换。¤Senior, if you have obtained the technique of defying good fortune, can you lend me a look? I am willing to use all my possessions as exchange.
……你先发誓不向外人透露此事。¤Swear that you will not reveal this to anyone else.
她……肉身也不在了……¤She...her physical body is no longer present...
你的好意我心领了，只是他们许的好处无可替代，你还是莫要打这些心思为好。¤I understand your kind intentions, but the benefits they promised are irreplaceable. It's better if you don't think about it.
道友，你若得到了这逆天造化术，可否借我一阅？当然，好处定然少不了。¤Fellow daoist, if you have obtained the defying good fortune technique, could you please share it with me for a read? Of course, there will be benefits involved for sure.
这…真不知当从何说起…¤I really don't know where to start with this...
道友，此事涉及到我万魂殿最高机密，还请莫要过问。¤Fellow Daoist, this matter involves the highest secret of my Ten Thousand Soul Hall. Please do not inquire any further.
”……这样拼凑出来的东西，还能算是复活嘛？“¤...Can something put together like this really be considered a revival?
前辈，此事涉及到我万魂殿最高机密，还是莫要过问为好。¤Senior, this matter involves the highest confidentiality of my Wan Hun Hall. It's better for you not to inquire about it.
听到这个问题，她顿时警觉了起来。¤Upon hearing this question, she immediately became alert.
既然你不肯交出万魂幡，那多说无益，有什么底牌，直接亮出来罢。¤Since you refuse to hand over the Ten Thousand Soul Banner, there's no point in talking anymore. If you have any aces up your sleeve, just show them directly.
我万魂殿与阁下无冤无仇，阁下何故与我们为敌？¤Why do you have to be our enemy when my Ten Thousand Soul Palace has no grudges or grievances against you?
一般来说，元神若是消散了，便是永远消散了，再无召回的说法。¤Generally speaking, if the yuan god dissolves, it will be forever gone without any possibility of being recalled.
不过还有一事令我十分在意，你之前提到的上半部分，莫非叫做逆天造化术？¤However, there is one thing that I am greatly concerned about. The upper half that you mentioned earlier, is it called the Defying Good Fortune technique?
只见她面色愈加阴沉起来。¤I saw her face become even more gloomy.
唯有此事，我断然不会答应。你可知道这万魂幡对我来说有多重要？¤I will never agree to this one thing. Do you know how important the Ten Thousand Soul Banner is to me?
就算不能复生，只招来元神，我也心满意足了。¤Even if I cannot be reincarnated, as long as I can summon my Yuan God, I will be content.
本座若真能得到此物，借你一阅又有何妨。¤If this seat could really obtain this thing, lending you a read would be of no consequence.
此前与我一辈的颜师兄，就因为被发现其擅自杀人夺魂，而被殿主逐出了万魂殿。¤Previously, my senior brother Yan from the same generation as me, was expelled from the Ten Thousand Soul Palace by the palace lord for being discovered to have killed and captured souls without permission.
唯有此事，在下断然不会答应。前辈可知这万魂幡对在下有多重要？¤Only this matter, this humble one will absolutely not agree. Senior, do you know how important the Ten Thousand Soul Banner is to me?
虽然两三下便解决了杂兵，可大长老的万魂幡已经提前祭炼完毕，所释放出的威压连你也小觑不得。¤Although the small fries were easily taken care of in just a few moves, the grand elder's ten thousand soul banner had already been prepared and the might suppression it released cannot be underestimated even by you.
你有复活之法？¤Do you have a way of resurrection?
罢了，你一介外人，想必也不能理解吧。¤Forget it, you are just an outsider, I'm sure you wouldn't understand.
不必多言，出手罢。¤No need for words, let's fight.
这么说，你师妹肉身尚在？¤So you're saying your sister's physical body is still intact?
你……你根本什么都不知道。¤You... You don't know anything at all.
那我便在这里等候道友了。¤I will wait for you here, fellow daoist.
此事说出去旁人也未必会信。放心，我绝不向外人透露半个字。¤People may not believe it if this is told to others. Rest assured, I will not reveal a single word to outsiders.
如此匪夷所思之事，你若说不出个所以然来，要我如何信得过你？¤Such an incredible thing, if you can't explain why it happened, how can I trust you?
阁下并非魂体，又如何受到牵连？¤Your Excellency is not a soul body, so how are you affected?
这么说，你们万魂殿从不滥杀无辜，倒像个名门正派？¤So you're saying that the Myriad Soul Hall never kills indiscriminately and behaves like a righteous and upstanding sect?
见你没有罢手的意思，她身形暴退，迅速吃下几颗丹药，随即将一杆小幡祭出，其中灵魂朝万魂幡倾泻而出。¤Seeing that you had no intention of stopping, she quickly retreated and swallowed a few pills. She then started to use a small banner, pouring her soul into the Ten Thousand Soul Banner.
也不知道，你为了祭炼此幡，究竟牺牲了多少无辜冤魂。¤I don't know... how many innocent souls you have sacrificed to refine this banner.
…前辈若发誓不向别人透露……¤If senior vows not to disclose to others…
你怎会知道？¤How did you know?
如若你交出万魂幡，离开玄冥海，你我便不用大动干戈了，如何？¤If you hand over the Ten Thousand Soul Banner and leave the Underworld, we won't have to fight anymore. What do you say?
我与师妹从小情同手足，一起修炼了几百年，怎想到……¤My sister and I have been like siblings since we were young, cultivating together for hundreds of years. Who would have thought that...
我这万魂幡里共有九千五百二十八魂，没有一个是靠杀戮得来的无辜冤魂。¤Inside my ten thousand soul banner, there are a total of nine thousand five hundred and twenty-eight souls, and not a single one was acquired through the infamy of slaughter.
而且在下祭炼此幡，根本不是为自己所用，而是想复活师妹。¤And moreover, I am refining this banner not for my own use, but to revive my sister.
就算事出有因，你杀我教众，我又岂能坐视不理？¤Even if there was a reason for the matter, if you kill my disciples, how can I sit idly by?
罢了，既然你不肯交出万魂幡，我便不逼你了。¤Alright, since you're unwilling to surrender the Ten Thousand Soul Banner, I won't force you anymore.
前辈怎会知道？¤How would senior know?
她极为生气，整个人都在微微颤抖。¤She was extremely angry, and her whole body was trembling slightly.
不过是为自己屠戮生灵找些理由罢了，本座可不吃这套。¤It's just an excuse to slaughter beings for oneself, I don't buy it.
如今，我所能掌握的只有下半部分而已。¤Now, all I can control is the bottom half.
玄伶仙子管辖{color=#d0380a}剑派{/color}，是掌门的亲传弟子。虽然年轻但修为不逊于另两位长老，她主修的《乾坤化剑诀》也是我派秘传功法。¤Fairy Darkmind is in charge of the sword faction and is the direct disciple of the master. Despite being young, her cultivation is not inferior to the other two elders. The Qiankun Sword Transformation Skill that she masterfully practices is also a secret technique passed down in our faction.
我派目前还有授业的有三位长老，分别是润熹，凝霜和玄伶三位前辈，你想了解哪一位？¤Currently, our sect has three elders who are still teaching, namely Runxi, Frostglaze, and Xuanling. Which senior would you like to know more about?
凝霜仙子为{color=#d0380a}冰{/color}派长老，虽性格急躁了些，但主修《裂冰诀》的她操控冰的能力宁州无人能出其右。¤Fairy Frost Glaze is an elder of the {color=#d0380a}Ice{/color} sect. Although she can be a bit hot-headed, her mastery of the 《Split Ice》 skill makes her unparalleled in her ability to manipulate ice in Ningzhou.
润熹仙子有金丹后期修为，其独门功法《水灵妙法》能活用{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}之力，一经施展便是连绵不断的攻势，极难防备。¤Fairy Dawnrain has reached the late golden core cultivation level and possesses a unique technique called Water Spirit Wonderful Skill, which can utilize the phasing power of the five elements. Once used, it unleashes an incessant series of attacks that are very difficult to defend against.
大师兄，既然内鬼已除，我想打听一下墨师兄的下落。¤Senior Brother, now that the spy has been eliminated, I want to inquire about the whereabouts of Master Mo.
炎萧扭头看了你一眼，将手中的重尺停下，向你走来。¤Yan Xiao turned his head and glanced at you, then stopped the heavy ruler in his hand and walked towards you.
（五灵根，资质这么差...）¤(Five spiritual roots, such poor aptitude...)
就在你快要坚持不住的时候，炎萧终于放下手中的重尺，向你走来。¤Just when you were about to collapse, Yan Xiao finally put down the heavy ruler in his hand and walked towards you.
嘿！哈！嘿！哈！¤Hey! Ha! Hey! Ha!
你未曾修炼我们离火门的功法，以炼气期的修为可以坚持来到这里，就已经算通过了入门的第一道考验。¤You have not practiced the techniques of our Fire Gate Sect before. Being able to reach here with the cultivation of Qi Refining stage proves that you have passed the first test of entering the sect.
炎麟大圣本是化神期妖圣，乃当年本门魔焰真君的至交好友，受其邀请加入我离火门。¤Blaze Unicorn Sage was originally a demon saint in the Void Transformation stage, and was a close friend of our Fire Gate Sect's True Devil Flame Deity back in the day. He was invited by the latter to join our sect.
大师兄正在练剑，我还是不要打扰他了...¤Senior Brother is currently practicing his sword skills, so I shouldn't disturb him...
你没有出声，而是站到一边静静地等待。没过多久，你便被这里的高温热得头晕脑胀，只能咬牙坚持...¤You were silent and stood aside quietly waiting. It wasn't long before the scorching temperature made your head spin and ache, and you could only grit your teeth and persevere.
（三灵根，资质还算不错....）¤(Triple spiritual roots, aptitude is not too bad...)
这灵核这是各大门派争夺的一种重要资源，我们离火门也不例外。所以你收集到的所有灵核都可以在宗门内部换取其它你需要的东西。¤This spiritual core is an important resource that all sects are fighting for, including the Fire Gate Sect. Therefore, any spiritual core you collect can be exchanged for other items you need within the sect.
大师兄，我是新入门的外门弟子，{FirstName}{LastName}¤Senior brother, I am a new outer disciple, {FirstName}{LastName}, please take care of me.
不错{shidi}，看来你已经领取了功法与符器。¤Not bad {shidi}, it seems like you have already obtained the technique and runic weapon.
所以，他已经被废去修为，逐出师门了。¤Therefore, he has already lost his cultivation and been expelled from the sect.
你未来一段时间的住所我会找人替你安排妥当，你先去{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}领取外门弟子配属的符器与道袍，再去{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}挑选入门功法，之后再回来找我。¤I will assign someone to arrange your lodging for the next period of time. First, go to the {color=#d0380a}Divine Warrior Pavilion{/color} to receive your runic weapon and outer disciple robe, then go to the {color=#d0380a}Hidden Manual Pavilion{/color} to choose an introductory technique. After that, come back to me.
把手伸过来。¤Stretch out your hand.
老墨啊....¤Old ink....
还有件重要的事情你须得记住，我派每30年会举办一次{color=#d0380a}宗门大比{/color}，所有练气期的弟子都可以参与。¤There is one important thing you must remember. My sect holds a {color=#d0380a}clan competition{/color} every 30 years, and all disciples in the Qi refining stage are eligible to participate.
虽然我们离火门在这次试炼中位列魁首，但却有两位师弟在魔物的手下丧了命。¤Although our Fire Gate Sect ranks at the top in this trial, we have lost two junior disciples in the hands of the spirit beasts.
{FirstName}{shidi}，想必刚刚已经有人和你说过了，相比资质与悟性，我们离火门更看重你的心性与品行。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, I believe someone has already mentioned to you that, compared to aptitude and comprehension, the Fire Gate Sect values your character and conduct more. We also emphasize on your Heavenly Fire abilities.
你先去{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}领取外门弟子配属的符器与道袍，再去{color=#d0380a}藏经阁{/color}挑选入门功法，之后再回来找我。¤Firstly, go to the Divine Warrior Pavilion to receive your runic weapon and outer disciple robe, then go to the Hidden Manual Pavilion to select an entry-level technique, and finally come back to me.
（这墨居仁本就受魔焰决困扰，再加上这一番折腾也没几年好活了。）¤(Mo Juren was already troubled by the demon flame technique, and with this disturbance, he may not live for many more years.)
至于未来能不能成为内门弟子，还得要看你自己的努力。¤As for whether you can become an inner disciple in the future, it depends on your own efforts.
此次能战胜地魔你功不可没，不愧是我离火门弟子！¤Your contribution to defeating the Earth Demon this time was indispensable. You truly are a Fire Gate Disciple!
（竟...竟然和我一样，是天灵根！）¤(Unexpectedly... unexpectedly, we both have the heavenly spirit root!)
他拉过你的手，伸出两根手指，搭住了你的脉门...¤He took your hand and stretched out two fingers, grabbing your pulse...
你叫什么名字？¤What is your name?
我虽然极力求情，但老墨已经魔种深种，必须要废去修为才能根除。¤Although I pleaded fervently, Lao Mo has already been deeply infected by the magic seed and must have his cultivation abolished in order to completely eradicate it.
（双灵根，资质还算不错....）¤(Double spirit root, aptitude is pretty good...)
这筑基丹就算在门派内也非常稀有，但它对于你们未来的筑基非常的重要，师兄我当年也是服用了两颗筑基丹才筑基成功的，{shidi}可要好好抓住这样的机会啊。¤This Foundation Pill is extremely rare even within the sect, but it is crucial for your future Foundation Building. I myself succeeded in Foundation Building only after taking two of them. {shidi}, you must seize this opportunity.
对了，入我离火门，还有些事宜需要注意。¤By the way, if you want to join the Fire Gate Sect, there are some things you need to pay attention to.
（四灵根，资质倒是一般...）¤(Four quad spirit roots, aptitude is average...)
我叫{FirstName}{LastName}¤My name is {FirstName}{LastName}.
后山麟庙乃是宗门老祖炎麟大圣闭关之地，平日里有绝焰堂弟子驻守，{shidi}如无必要还是不要乱转。¤The Lin Temple at the Back Mountain is the place where the ancestral Blaze Unicorn Sage of the sect cultivates in seclusion. Usually, there are disciples from the Absolute Flame Hall stationed there, so unless necessary, {shidi}, it's best not to wander around aimlessly.
炎萧正奋力挥舞一把黑色的大尺修炼着，似乎并没有注意到你的到来。¤Yan Xiao was vigorously swinging a large black ruler while cultivating, seemingly unaware of your arrival.
多谢{FirstName}{gongzi}。我手中正有一块千年寒玉，若是香薷畏寒恰巧可派上用场。择日不如撞日，我俩便即刻启程吧。¤Thank you, {FirstName} {gongzi}. I happen to have a piece of Thousand-Year Cold Jade in my possession, which might come in handy for Xiangru's aversion to the cold. There's no time like the present, let's set off immediately.
太好了，这下师妹有救了！¤Great, now my sister can be saved!
我们出发吧！¤Let's set off!
其物名唤宁州香薷，因及其畏寒生于火铜四周...但早在五百年前就已经灭绝了。¤The plant is called Ningzhou Fragrant Mint, and grew around Fire Copper due to its fear of cold...but it had already gone extinct five hundred years ago.
那古迹中并未提及他法......{FirstName}{gongzi}，我思前想后，还是打算去沃焦山一探究竟。¤The ancient ruins didn't mention any other methods...{FirstName}{gongzi}, after much consideration, I've decided to head to Inferno Mountain to find out what's going on.
等等、等等！你这人也太过性急，还有后半句没说呢！¤Wait, wait! You are too impatient, you haven't said the second half yet!
{FirstName}{gongzi}，多谢你仗义相助，师妹的事就由我自己来吧。¤{FirstName}{gongzi}, thank you for your help. I'll take care of my sister's matter myself.
{vpunch=10,0.5}灭绝......？¤Annihilation... with just {vpunch=10,0.5}?
{vpunch=10,0.5}五百年前就已经灭绝了......？¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Was already extinct 500 years ago...?
听了你的话，李相书脸上的血色逐渐褪去，面色惶惶地看着你嗫嚅道。¤After listening to your words, the blood on Li Xiangshu's face gradually faded, and he looked at you with an anxious expression, stuttering.
哪怕只有一丝机会我也想赌上一赌，俗话说眼见为实，不自己查探一番实在不能算是尽人事。¤Even if there is only a slight chance, I want to take a gamble. As the saying goes, seeing is believing. It is not enough to just rely on hearsay without investigating on one's own.
道友可觅得草药的消息了？¤Fellow daoist, have you heard any news about herbs?
消息是有了......¤The news is out...
你还真是不到黄河心不死......¤You won't die until you reach the Yellow River's heart.
他魂不守舍地翻来覆去念叨这一句，你摇了摇头轻声叹息。¤He tossed and turned, repeating this sentence without being able to focus. You shook your head and sighed softly.
到了这里应该差不多了。¤We should be about here now.
前方应该就是入口，我们进去一探。¤The entrance should be ahead of us, let's go in and take a look.
你和倪旭欣在逸风城近郊停下脚步，此处树木丛生，杂草旺盛。但不知为何十几丈外的土地草木凋零，显得十分荒芜怪异。¤You and Ni Xuxin stopped in your tracks on the outskirts of Yifeng City. The area was densely populated with trees and overgrown with weeds. However, for some reason, the plants and trees over a dozen feet away were withered and looked eerie and desolate.
前阵听闻逸风城附近的龙隐洞有妖兽作祟，残害无辜百姓。没想到地图的终点居然是此处，算了算了，就当为民除害吧！¤I heard recently that a spirit beast has been causing trouble in Long Yin Cave near Yifeng City, causing harm to innocent people. I never expected that the destination marked on the map would lead us here, but let's just consider it our duty to rid the area of this menace!
自上古之后我龙族遗失大量秘法，目前族中已经没有适合道友的术法了。¤Since ancient times, our dragon clan has lost a large number of secret techniques. Currently, there are no suitable techniques for fellow daoists in our clan.
陨龙之地中出现的上古遗物，就包括我龙族的传功龙鳞。¤In the Land of the Fallen Dragons, ancient artifacts have surfaced, including the Dragon Clan's transmission dragon scales.
道友寻回的传功龙鳞我已经提取了其中内容。¤Fellow daoist, I have already extracted the contents of the dragon scales that you retrieved.
愿闻其详，还请赐教。¤I would like to hear the details and ask for your guidance.
不敢不敢，这《金鳞草集》乃是我龙族先辈所著，其上记载了不少我龙族特产的天才地宝，这就赠与道友吧。¤I dare not refuse, this 《Golden Scale Herb Collection》 was written by my Dragon Clan predecessors. It records many of our Dragon Clan's special talents and treasures. I will give it to Fellow Daoist as a gift.
你救出敖玄的陨龙之地，可惜并没有遇到传功龙鳞，道友只能等下次机会了。¤You rescued Ao Xuan from the Land of the Fallen Dragons, but unfortunately did not encounter any Dragon Scales for cultivation. Fellow Daoist will have to wait for the next opportunity.
道友可曾听闻过我龙族的各种天材地宝？¤Fellow daoist, have you ever heard of the various heavenly materials and earthly treasures of my Dragon Clan?
不过，听闻东海有人在{color=#d0380a}东海陨龙之地{/color}之中寻得过我龙族的传功龙鳞。¤However, it is said that some people have found dragon scales of our Dragon Clan in the Land of the Fallen Dragons in the East Sea.
上古龙宫虽是沉没于东海海底，但龙宫的残垣断壁每隔百年会上浮至海面。¤Although the Ancient Dragon Palace sank to the bottom of the East Sea, its remnants and broken walls resurface every hundred years.
多谢长老。¤Thank you elder.
嘿嘿，就是想想么。¤Hehe, just thinking.
看着台下的魁首，你似乎想起了自己当年也如同他一般，心中颇有感慨。¤Looking at the leader below the stage, you seem to remember that you were once like him, with a lot of emotion in your heart.
你看到下方弟子都在按步骤进行，虽有人很是吃力但也没有意外发生。¤You see the disciples below following the steps, although some are struggling, nothing unexpected happens.
啊！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Ah!!{vpunch=10,0.5}
数轮比赛之后决出了本届魁首，他虽是负伤在身却也难掩自己的激动。¤After several rounds of competition, the winner of this year's championship was decided. Despite being injured, he could not hide his excitement.
也不知我什么时候才能像{FirstName}长老一样成为金丹长老呢。¤I don't know when I can become a Golden Core Elder like Elder {FirstName}.
在台下众弟子憧憬的注视下你转身离开。¤Under the admiring gaze of the disciples below the stage, you turn around and leave.
你呀就是好高骛远，我们能不能从这外门大比之中杀出来都不知道呢。¤You're always aiming for the impossible. We don't even know if we can survive this Outer Sect competition.
你是指？¤Who are you referring to?
之后他被带往大殿拜师，你也在台下众弟子憧憬的注视下起身离开。¤Afterwards he was brought to the main hall to become a disciple, and you stood up and left under the envious eyes of the other disciples below the stage.
宗门广场上聚集了不少外门弟子，算算时间此时正是外门大比的日子。¤Many outer disciples have gathered at the sect plaza, and according to the time, today is the day of the outer disciples' grand competition.
远处已经有宗门长老开始组织众弟子，不过见你到场他向你走来。¤From afar, the elders of the sect have already started organizing their disciples. However, upon seeing you arrive, one of them approaches you.
这位{FirstName}长老，当年不仅夺得外门大比魁首进入内门，之后更是一举突破至金丹期成为长老。¤This Elder {FirstName}, not only won the outer sect competition and entered the inner sect, but also made a breakthrough to the Golden Core stage and became an Elder.
台下弟子多数还在融化材料，他们其中有人得心应手也有的手忙脚乱。¤Many disciples under the stage are still melting materials, some of them are skilled while others are scrambling.
此时两名弟子的低语传入你耳。¤At this moment, the whispers of two disciples entered your ears.
{FirstName}长老，可有兴致旁观本届大比？¤Senior {FirstName}, do you have any interest in observing this year's grand competition?
一会儿加油~我先走了¤In a moment, keep up the good work~ I'm leaving now.
我辈修士本就是逆天而行，若连这点心气儿都没有，还怎么求得长生大道？¤As cultivators, we are inherently going against the natural order of things. If we don't have the courage to go against the flow, how can we hope to attain the eternal life of dao?
长...长老？¤Long... elder?
一会儿加油~¤Come on, give it a little bit more effort.
这位就是{FirstName}长老吧？¤Is this {FirstName} elder?
你正欲转身离开，此时两名弟子的低语传入你耳。¤As you were about to turn around and leave, two disciples whispered something in your ear.
嗯，品相不错。¤Well, the quality is good.
看到你在傍边落座，明显很多弟子显得跃跃欲试想在你面前表现一番。¤Seeing you sitting nearby, many disciples obviously appear eager to show off in front of you.
黑点即将消失在你眼前时，也不知星铃儿是发现你在努力追上她还是怎的，竟停在半空等你。见状你也是连忙赶过去。¤When the black spot was about to disappear before your eyes, it's unclear whether Star Bell noticed you trying to catch up with her or not, but she stopped in mid-air and waited for you. Seeing this, you hurried over.
星道友呢？为何在此停下？¤Fellow Daoist Xing, why did you stop here?
咳...没想到星姑娘在遁术上竟会如此厉害，让我险些追不上。¤Ahem...I never expected that Miss Star would be so skilled in mobility techniques, almost making it impossible for me to catch up.
原来如此。我作为正派修士，对妖人邪道等也是深恶痛绝，若是星姑娘不介意，请让我与道友一同前去剿灭妖人，如何？¤I see. As a cultivator of the orthodox path, I abhor monsters and demonic ways. If Miss Xing does not mind, would you allow me to join her and fellow daoist in eradicating these creatures?
竟然以星道友的速度都没能追上？难道那妖人是筑基？¤Could it be that the demon is at the Foundation Building stage, since even Star Fellow Daoist couldn't catch up to him?
那星道友停下，是因为他躲在这附近？¤Did Fellow Daoist that star stop because he's hiding nearby?
没有啊，让他跑了。¤There isn't, he escaped.
嗯，是你...好像是叫...哦，是上次那个坏我事的对吧？¤Uh, it's you...seems like...oh, it's the one who caused trouble for me last time, right?
只是想说上次星道友送我的冰灵面纱很好用，多谢星道友，哈...哈哈。¤I just wanted to say that the ice spirit veil that fellow daoist Xing gave me the last time is really useful. Thank you, fellow daoist Xing, haha...hahaha.
嗯...既然你有此兴致，便随我一同前往吧。¤Umm... Since you're interested, then come with me.
刚才我发现印记已在前方不远处停滞，估摸着是快到他洞府之类的落脚处了，于是想着慢慢走过去就停下来咯。¤Just now, I noticed that the mark has stalled not too far ahead. I estimate that it's almost at his cave, where he usually stays. So, I thought of slowly walking over and stopping there.
竟然以星道友的速度都没能追上？难道那妖人是金丹期？¤Did you really not catch up to Star Fellow Daoist's speed? Could it be that the demon is in the Golden Core stage?
星姑娘。¤Star girl.
我看星道友行色匆匆，还以为遇到麻烦，想着助道友一臂之力就追上来了。¤I saw Fellow Daoist Xing rushing hurriedly and thought that he had encountered some trouble. I wanted to lend a helping hand to Fellow Daoist and catch up with him.
哦？你为何要追在我身后？¤Oh? Why are you chasing after me?
不知星道友有什么需要帮忙的么？¤Fellow daoist Xing, do you need any assistance?
之前交战时，我顺手留下了神识印记，以他的修为想消除我的印记可没那么容易。¤During our previous battle, I casually left a soul sense mark on him. It's not so easy for someone of his cultivation level to remove my mark.
嗯，告诉你也无妨。我本是奉师命于云汐城追查左近出现修习邪术的妖人一事，方才打伤其中一人后便一路追寻至此。¤Well, I might as well tell you. I was originally ordered by my master to investigate the appearance of demonic beings practicing forbidden magic in Yun Shi City. After injuring one of them, I pursued them all the way here.
想啥呢，是我故意放跑他的，不然就算是金丹期也跑不了，哼哼，我可是很厉害的！¤What are you thinking? I intentionally let him go. Otherwise, even if he's in the Golden Core stage, he wouldn't be able to escape. Humph, I'm very powerful!
哦，不用客气。¤Oh, don't mention it.
你将速度提升到最快，竟还只能看着那道身影渐渐化为一个黑点，还是一个越来越小乃至若隐若现的黑点。¤You accelerate to the fastest speed, but can only watch as the figure gradually turns into a black dot, and then a smaller and more imperceptible black dot.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}今日来找我何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤{FirstName} brother, what brings you here today?
多亏{FirstName}{xiongdi}当日的开解，我百里一族才得以化解与龙族的怨恨！¤Thanks to {FirstName} and my fellow {xiongdi}'s persuasion that day, my Baili clan was able to resolve our grudges with the Dragon clan!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}今日可是来找我切磋一番的？¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}Today is the day you've come to duel with me.？
索性父亲已经同意将龙珠归还于龙族，这才化解了多年的恩怨。¤Father had agreed to give back the Dragon Ball to the dragon clan, resolving years of conflict.
噢？{FirstName}{xiongdi}也听到有关宁州古迹的传闻了？¤Oh? {FirstName}, did you also hear the rumours about the Ning Province Ancient Ruin, {xiongdi}?
你问父亲？我们父子关系非常融洽，父亲对我的修练也很关心。但我总觉得，父亲好像有什么隐瞒着我一样。¤Ask my father? Our father-son relationship is very harmonious, and my father is also very concerned about my cultivation. But I always feel like my father is hiding something from me.
只有修得体道大成，才能在灵气乱流中自如来去，不受任何影响。我等待此次机遇已有百年时间，不过届时{FirstName}{xiongdi}还是要多加小心啊！¤Only by cultivating the Body Dao to great perfection can one move freely amidst chaotic spiritual energy flows without being affected in any way. I have been waiting for this opportunity for a hundred years, but when the time comes, {FirstName} and {xiongdi} still need to be extra careful!
等以后结丹了，定要再出海历练一番。¤After reaching the Core Formation stage in the future, I must go out to sea again for further training.
看来{FirstName}{xiongdi}已经听说了，之前我贸然前往化龙海域，得罪了龙族，差点给广陵城的百姓带来灭顶之灾。¤It seems that {FirstName}{xiongdi} has already heard about it. Before, I ventured into the Shifting Dragon Sea and offended the Dragon Clan, nearly bringing about a catastrophe to the people of Guangling City.
据族中长辈说，想要进入宁州古迹所在的位面，需得先通过{color=#d0380a}空间裂隙{/color}才行。而即使是元婴期修士也难以在这空间乱流中稳住身形，只能勉强跟随乱流前进，伺机寻找进入古位面的入口。¤According to the elders of the clan, in order to enter the plane where the {color=#d0380a}Ning Province ancient ruin{/color} is located, one must first pass through a {color=#d0380a}space rift{/color}. Even cultivators in the {color=#d0380a}Nascent Soul{/color} stage find it difficult to stabilize their form in the chaotic currents of this space, and can only follow the currents and wait for an opportunity to find the entrance to the ancient plane.
我曾跟随家族的船队去过一次海，这海里的妖兽都极难对付，可惜当时的修为太低，也没帮上大家什么忙。¤I once accompanied my family's fleet on a voyage to the sea, where the spirit beasts were very difficult to deal with. Unfortunately, my cultivation was too low at the time, so I didn't really help anyone.
可是新来的小{shidi}？我教所用法器较为特殊，这是能储存灵尘的葫芦。你聚集的尘可暂时储存在此物内，待战斗时一并放出。¤But what about the new junior apprentice sister/brother {shidi}? The magic tool I use is quite unique. This is a gourd that can store spiritual dust. You can temporarily store the dust you gather inside this tool, and release it all at once during combat.
{shidi}拿好，千万小心别弄丢了。¤{shidi}, take good care of it, be careful not to lose it.
没想到...我算来算去，甚至背叛了宗门，最后落得如此下场。早知如此，何必当初啊......¤I didn't expect... after all the calculations and even betraying the sect, I ended up like this. If only I had known earlier, why did I have to do it in the first place...
气眼中央，一位通体漆黑、发色雪白的“少女”本在闭目修炼。你闯入气眼后，她便也抬头看向了你。¤At the center of the qi vortex, a pitch-black girl with white hair was practicing cultivation with her eyes closed. As soon as you entered the vortex, she looked up at you.
（邪魅地）我们诞生于极阴之地极阴之时，是天地间偶然的造化，山岳江河般的存在。¤(With a sinister charm) We were born in the land of extreme darkness and at the time of extreme darkness, we were a fortuitous creation between heaven and earth, an existence akin to mountains and rivers.
这么说，这只灵雀是铁下心一定要变成金鹏了？¤So, you mean Ironheart is determined to turn this spiritual sparrow into a golden peng?
气旋内阴气浓郁地好像马上就要凝成液体一般，以至于让你根本感受不到灵气的流动。¤The Yin qi was so dense inside the cyclone that it seemed to be on the verge of condensing into liquid, making it impossible to feel the flow of spiritual energy.
原来是姑娘在此修炼，在下不慎闯入，多有得罪，还望姑娘海涵…¤Originally, a young girl was cultivating here. I accidentally intruded and offended her. I apologize and hope the young girl can forgive me.
（腼腆地）唔…那还是听二姐的吧，抱歉啦~¤(Shyly) Um...let's just listen to Second Sister, sorry~
（腼腆地）你…你好……¤(Shyly) Hello...
（冷静地）…结局虽然如此，但一只灵雀渴望变成金鹏，又有什么错呢？¤(Calmly) ...Although the ending is like this, is it really wrong for a spiritual sparrow to aspire to become a Golden Peng?
灵雀很伤心。但作为蓬莎岛上唯一一只会修炼的灵雀，它坚信一定会找到出路。¤Lingque was very sad. But as the only spirit sparrow on Pongsha Island who could cultivate, it believed that it would definitely find a way out.
没错，灵雀终究不是金鹏。¤Yes, the spirit sparrow is ultimately not the golden peng.
你能听出她语气中的决然，想来已是打定了主意。¤You can hear the determination in her tone, she must have made up her mind.
此次机会若不抓住，你便又要枯坐修炼数万年，若你不觉得无聊，大可多给人家给几块。¤If you don't seize this opportunity, you will have to sit in cultivation for tens of thousands of years again. If you don't find it boring, you can just give away a few pieces to others.
（邪魅地）这可是我的最高杰作！¤(Deviously) This is my ultimate masterpiece!
费尽千辛万苦学成之后，它的体型与实力都变得与寻常的金鹏一样，心想——这下金鹏们总能接纳自己了吧？¤After all the hard work and effort spent in learning, its size and strength had become the same as a regular golden peng. It thought to itself now the golden pengs should be able to accept me, right?
震惊带来的僵硬仅持续了一瞬间，你马上便回过了神来。¤The stiffness brought about by the shock only lasted for a moment, and you immediately regained your senses.
你本意只是想试探一二，但问完这句话后片刻的安静，却让你莫名有些后怕。¤Your original intention was just to probe a bit, but the moment of silence after you asked this question made you inexplicably afraid.
二姐？这里不是只有你一个人嘛？¤Second sister? Isn't there only you here?
在你的一连串发问下，三妹逐渐占据了上风。你也意识到了情况的危急。¤Amidst your barrage of questions, Third Sister gradually gained the upper hand. You also realized the direness of the situation.
如此，在下便先行告退了…¤Like this, I will take my leave first...
既然这些过程都能模拟，为何数万年还不飞升？¤If these processes can be simulated, why haven't we ascended after tens of thousands of years?
（邪魅地）嘁嘁嘁，还是你这{xiaozi}聪明啊，这么久都没有飞升的东西怎么会是人呢？¤Tsk tsk tsk, you're quite clever, {xiaozi}. How could something that hasn't ascended for so long be human?
突如其来的呵斥打断了你，让你从这些问题中抽离了出来。¤Suddenly a rebuke interrupted you, pulling you away from these questions.
“这…难道便是传说中的元神分裂？”¤This... Could it be the legendary split of the yuan god?
（腼腆地）真的吗？荧儿上次听故事都不知道是多久之前了！¤(Really? Ying'er doesn't even know how long it's been since she last heard a story!)
（腼腆地）其实这个数万年指的是月环蚀的周期。¤(Shyly) Actually, this number of ten thousand years refers to the cycle of lunar eclipses.
后会有期！¤See you later!
这样想固然没错，但若这只灵雀始终不能变成金鹏，那么回归灵雀，感受灵雀的快乐，又何尝不可呢？¤While it's true to think like this, if this spirit bird can never transform into a Golden Peng, then why not return to being a spirit bird and experience the joy of being one?
祭出非也给你的避阴珠，气旋内的阴气果然都离你而去，瞬间腾出了约莫三丈方圆的空间。¤I wielded the nonya avoid Yin pearl given to you, and the Yin energy within the cyclone all retreated from you. Instantly, a space of about three sanzhu square emerged.
听了二姐的话，你顿时语塞起来。¤After listening to second sister's words, you suddenly became tongue-tied.
她究竟是怎么想到这一层的？你无论如何也想不通这一点。¤How did she come up with this level 1? You can't figure it out no matter what.
（冷静地）嗯…但灵雀终究不是金鹏。这种关系，恐怕难以维系吧？¤(Calmly) Hmm...but Lingque is ultimately not the Golden Peng. This kind of relationship is probably difficult to maintain, right?
一下子接受如此之多的信息，你的疑惑不减反增。¤After accepting so much information all at once, your confusion only increased instead of lessened.
你按魏无极所说的，小心翼翼地走到那山包前——那哪是什么山包，那赫然是一大堆神阴石。¤Following the instructions of Wei Wuji, you carefully approached the mountain mound but it was no ordinary mound, rather it was a large pile of Shenyin Stones.
你不等她把话说完，转身便朝外飞去。不料她竟以一种非人的速度向你攻来，令你始料未及。¤You don't wait for her to finish speaking, you turn around and fly outwards. Unexpectedly, she attacks you with a inhuman speed, catching you off guard.
但就是这小小的空间，使你原本紧张的情绪稍微得到了缓解。¤But it was this small space that eased your previously tense emotions a little.
老头，你觉得她能成功吗？¤Old man, do you think she can succeed?
随着时间的流逝，它们体型与实力上的差距越来越大，随之而来的问题也越来越多，灵雀最终还是被金鹏们排挤在外了。¤As time passed, the gap in size and strength between them grew larger, and along with it came more and more problems. Eventually, the Spirit Sparrow was pushed out by the Golden Pengs.
若非也所说不错，气眼处只是一个重阴气的灵物罢了。¤If nonya's words are not wrong, the place where the Qi eye is located is just a spiritual object with heavy Yin energy.
山岳江河？那岂止是没有寿元的限制，你何曾见过山岳突破化神？¤Mountains, rivers, and lakes? They are not just without the limitation of lifespan. Have you ever seen mountains undergo deity transformation breakthrough?
道别过后，你便原路返回到了地面。¤After saying goodbye, you returned back to the ground along the same path.
数万年，即使对于顶尖的化神强者来说，这依然是个天文数字。她们究竟如何修炼数万年？你陷入了疑虑。¤For thousands of years, even for the top Deity Transformation experts, this is still an astronomical number. How did they cultivate for thousands of years? You are doubtful.
（腼腆地）什么嘛，吊人家胃口…讨厌…¤(Shyly) What are you talking about? Stop teasing me... I hate it...
既然如此，在下便不再追问了，祝二位成功飞升，后会有期！¤Since that's the case, I won't ask any further. I wish you both success in ascending and hope to meet again in the future!
（腼腆地）二姐，人家都说了自己的事情了，咱们却什么都不告诉人家，不太好吧…？¤(Bashfully) Second Sister, everyone has already shared their own stories, but we haven't told them anything. Is that not so good...?
能惊起这么大的天地异象，这气眼之内定然不是凡物，还是小心为上。¤With the ability to cause such a great phenomenon in the world, it is definitely not an ordinary thing within its sight. It's better to be careful.
（邪魅地）嘁嘁嘁，今天便让你明白，化神与化神之间的差距，就如同化神与蝼蚁的差距一样大！¤(With a devilish smirk) Tsk tsk tsk, today I will make you understand that the difference between deity transformations is as great as the difference between a deity and an ant!
气眼最终落在了一个小山包上。你避开了气眼，落到一边的碎石上，开始仔细观察此地。¤The qi eye finally fell on a small hill. You avoided the qi eye and landed on some scattered rocks on the side, beginning to carefully observe the area.
可此处诡异至极，我用神识竟探测不到丝毫，这当如何是好？¤But this place is extremely strange, I can't detect even a trace of it with my soul sense, what should I do?
幽荧2¤Ghost2
这只灵雀已然像金鹏一样，那还如何融入原本的灵雀一族呢？¤How can this spiritual sparrow integrate into the original sparrow clan when it's already like a golden peng?
你隐隐猜到了些什么东西，但若直言相问，恐会生变；若就此离去，心又不甘。¤You vaguely guessed something, but if you ask directly, it may cause trouble; if you leave, your heart is unwilling.
（腼腆地）我们有这么多黑石头，分人家一两块嘛。¤(Modestly) We have so many blackstones, why don't we give some to others?
哈哈哈哈，这结局嘛…下次见面的时候再告诉你~¤Hahaha, as for the ending...I'll tell you when we meet next time~
突破的过程最多只是阴气在体内的变化而已，但我要怎么模拟雷劫？怎么模拟飞升的通道？¤The process of breakthrough is mostly just a change in the Yin energy within the body, but how can I simulate the Thunder Kalpa and the passage to ascension?
至于答案，届时自会有分晓。¤As for the answer, it will be revealed in due time.
刚还夸你聪明，不会这么点东西都看不出来吧？¤Just praised you for being smart, can't you see such a small thing?
虽说她看起来是少女模样，但想来也不可能是真的少女。如此情形下，你组织了一套不太容易冒犯人的说辞。¤Although she appears to be a young girl, it is unlikely she is truly so. In this situation, you put together a set of words that wouldn't easily offend her.
顺着气旋的吸引力，片刻之后，你便到达了气旋的尽头。¤Following the gravity of the vortex, you arrived at its end after a moment.
不能以常理揣摩？那恐怕已经超脱天地法则之外，超越人的范畴了吧？¤Cannot be understood with common sense? Then perhaps it has already gone beyond the laws of heaven and earth, beyond the realm of human beings?
嘁，飞升又不一样。¤Tsk, ascension is not the same thing.
本座好歹也是化神修为，今天倒要看看你这妖孽究竟有何神通，胆敢如此猖狂？¤I have at least reached the level of deity transformation cultivation. Today, I want to see what divine skill you, this monster, possess, daring to be so arrogant?
（冷静地）话虽如此，但多一块石头，{$时间}年后便多一分飞升的机会。¤(Calmly) Although that may be the case, with one more piece of stone, there will be one more opportunity for ascension in {$time} years.
你祭出避阴珠，再做好防护，应该没有大碍。¤You use the Avoid Yin Pearl and take precautions, there should be no problem.
此地极浓的阴气对常人而言凶险无比，阁下说因为好奇就甘冒如此风险，恐怕所言非实吧。¤The extremely dense Yin energy in this area is extremely dangerous for ordinary people. You must be lying when you say you are willing to take such risks out of curiosity.
空气忽然又沉默下来。你隐隐察觉到，这回可能真的触碰到底线了。¤The air suddenly fell silent. You faintly perceive that this time you may have really touched the bottom line.
（冷静地）倘若这只灵雀将外观、声音等一切全都模仿成金鹏的样子，能瞒过金鹏也说不定。¤(Calmly) If this spirit sparrow can imitate everything from appearance to sound as the Golden Peng, it might be able to deceive even the Golden Peng.
你若好奇，届时再来看看便是。¤If you are curious, then come back and see for yourself.
“永恒的存在…这就是他们所看到的世界吗？”¤Is this the world they see...as an eternal existence?
纵然你已是化神修为，但遇到这种从未见过之事，你依然不敢懈怠半分。¤Even though you have already achieved deity transformation cultivation, you still dare not be negligent in the face of such an unprecedented event.
（腼腆地）唔…这只灵雀也太可怜了…既然它跟金鹏一样大，一样强，那它为什么就不能是金鹏呢？¤(Timidly) Umm...this spirit sparrow is too pitiful...since it's the same size and strength as the golden peng, why can't it be a golden peng too?
当然~这就要从很久很久以前说起了。¤Of course, this story goes back a very, very long time.
（冷静地）……¤(Calmly)......
（腼腆地）是呀，二姐已经为飞升准备了好久好久。¤Indeed, Second Sister has been preparing for ascension for a very long time.
（邪魅地）荧儿与二姐你都见过，我自然就是三妹了。¤(Charmingly) You have both met Ying'er and Second Sister, so naturally I am Third Sister.
“若此人与岛主他们勾结，知道我对岛主他们不利，定然不会善罢甘休。”¤If this person colludes with the island master and knows that I am unfavorable to them, they definitely will not just give up easily.
后来又观察人类修士突破的规律，又模拟出了筑基、结丹、结婴与化神的过程。¤Later, they observed the pattern of human cultivators' breakthroughs and simulated the processes of foundation building, core formation, nascent soul formation, and deity transformation.
（冷静地）……依我看，不然。¤(Calmly)... In my opinion, no.
一时间，你与她纯白的眸子四目相视，第一反应竟是觉得有些漂亮。¤For a moment, you and her pure white eyes met, and your first reaction was that they were quite beautiful.
（腼腆地）二姐你干嘛那么凶，好不容易有个人来陪我们说说话，都要被你吓跑了。¤(Shyly) Second Sister, why are you being so ferocious? We finally have someone to talk to, and you're scaring them away.
就在你试图理解她的想法时，她又开了口。¤Just as you were trying to understand her thoughts, she spoke again.
所幸非也所引发的骚动并未结束，你便趁机溜了出去。¤Fortunately, the commotion caused by nonya had not yet ended, so you took the opportunity to slip out.
短暂的寂静后，幽荧的表情和语气都变得与之前截然不同，俨然就像变了一个人。¤After a brief moment of silence, Ghost's expression and tone changed completely, as if she had become a different person.
而恰巧这只灵雀的颜色与金鹏也无二致，所以它出生时便对自己是金鹏这件事深信不疑。¤And coincidentally, the color of this spiritual sparrow is identical to that of the Golden Peng, so it firmly believes itself to be a Golden Peng from birth.
“不能以常理揣摩，那究竟还能不能称之为人？”¤Can't be analyzed by common sense, can that still be called a human?
传言蓬莎岛上还没有修士的时候，有一只灵雀。它出生之时第一眼看见的不是父母，而是天空中的一只金鹏。¤Legend has it that before there were any cultivators on Pongsha Island, there was a spiritual sparrow. The first thing it saw when it was born was not its parents, but a golden peng in the sky.
（冷静地）况且…这灵雀也未必不能变成金鹏。¤(Calmly) Moreover...this spiritual sparrow might even be able to transform into a golden peng.
既然你们已是不灭之身，为何要花这么多心思寻求突破？不对，究其根本，你们为什么想要模仿人类？¤Since you are already indestructible, why go through so much trouble seeking a breakthrough? Wait, at the root of it all, why do you want to imitate humans?
神识扫过，只见山包之外皆是一些土块碎石，毫无宝物的踪迹。¤With a sweep of his soul sense, all he could see beyond the hills were some dirt clumps and broken rocks, devoid of any trace of treasures.
（冷静地）阁下不说明白便想走？若是想对我们不利，我等岂不是放虎归山？¤(Calmly) You want to leave without explaining yourself, sir? If you are planning something against us, won't we be letting the tiger return to the mountain?
对于我们来说，所谓寿元的限制就只是个笑话而已。¤For us, the so-called limit of lifespan is just a joke.
他是我的恩师，绝不可能拱手让给你的。¤He is my mentor, he will never concede it to you.
幽荧1¤: ghostly brilliance
既然问题就出在体型与实力上，它索性去了浪方海域，找到了体型与实力都最强的鲲族，学习它们的成长修炼之法。¤Since the problem was with its body size and strength, it decided to go to the Langfang Sea and learn from the strongest Kun clan to cultivate and improve its growth.
我和二姐、三妹一同修炼，应该…也算不上一个人吧…？¤I, along with my second sister and third younger sister, cultivate together. It wouldn't be considered as just one person, right?
若是要陪姑娘说说话，倒是也无妨。只是不知姑娘是何方高人，竟独自在此修炼？¤If you want to chat with the girl, that's fine too. But I don't know who the girl is, why is she cultivating alone here?
（冷静地）哼，果然来者不善。如此就休怪我们不客气了。¤(Calmly) Humph, as expected, the visitor is not good. Don't blame us for not being polite then.
（邪魅地）看在你把我放出来的份上，有什么想知道的，尽管问吧。¤As you've released me, feel free to ask anything you want to know.
（腼腆地）哎，二姐人其实很好的，只是太过谨慎了。¤(Awkwardly) Ah, Second Sister is actually very nice, just too cautious.
“二姐这反应，应该是听懂了我的{color=#d0380a}暗喻{/color}。”¤Sister Er understood the {color=#d0380a}allusion{/color} in my words from her reaction.
（冷静地）后会有期。¤Calmly, we'll meet again in the future.
（腼腆地）你们在说什么啊？那可怜的小灵雀最后究竟怎么样了？故事还没说完呢！¤(Shyly) What are you guys talking about? What happened to the poor little spirit sparrow in the end? The story isn't finished yet!
此处一片漆黑，冰冷刺骨，但阴气浓度陡降——甚至不如地面上浓郁。¤Here was pitch blackness, bone-chilling coldness, but with a sudden drop in the concentration of yin qi - less dense than even the surface.
在下只是碰巧路过，见此奇景颇为好奇，下来看看罢了。¤I just happened to pass by and was curious about this strange sight, so I came down to take a look.
幽荧3¤Ghostly Glow 3
否则若此人一开始便打的是我们的主意，我们定会陷入被动。¤Otherwise, if this person had initially struck at our ideas, we would have fallen into a passive position.
三妹便是借助一次月环蚀成功突破化神的，可厉害了~¤The third sister succeeded in a breakthrough deity transformation by taking advantage of a lunar eclipse, which is impressive~
“罢了，她看上去也不像是穷凶极恶之人，若我没有敌意，想必她也不会出手吧。”¤Never mind, she doesn't seem like a wicked person. If I have no ill intent, she probably won't attack me.
（腼腆地）我？二姐说我叫幽荧，你也可以叫我荧儿。¤(Shyly) Me? Second sister calls me Ghost, you can also call me Ying'er.
（冷静地）的确，若是谎言，一时间恐怕无法说到如此细致。¤Calmly, it is true that if it were a lie, it would be difficult to explain it in such detail for a while.
道友若信不过在下，在下离开便是。¤Fellow daoist, if you do not trust this humble one, then this humble one will take his leave.
她双手捂着脸，身体剧烈地抖动了一阵，再见时俨然已经是另一个表情。¤She covered her face with both hands, her body shaking violently for a moment before revealing a completely different expression when she looked up again.
虽然继续问下去可能会很不妙，但好奇心仍驱使你继续了下去。¤Although it may be unwise to continue asking, curiosity still drives you to keep going.
踏上“山包”，展开灵气护罩抵挡风压与潜在的威胁，你缓缓地一步步向气眼走去。¤Stepping onto the mountain peak, you slowly make your way towards the Qi vortex while deploying a protective shield of Qi to withstand the wind pressure and potential threats.
所以，它从小便像金鹏一样飞，同小金鹏们一起修炼，一起觅食，一起玩耍。¤Therefore, from a young age, it flew like a golden peng, cultivating, hunting for food, and playing with other young golden pengs.
嗯？何以见得？¤Huh? How do you know?
飞升之事，我知之甚少…不过想做成此等逆天之事，只能说难上加难。¤Regarding the matter of Ascension, I know very little... But if one wishes to accomplish such a reverse heavenly task, it can only be described as extremely difficult.
（冷静地）…若按照常理来说自当如此，不过我们却不能以常理揣摩，道友还是少问为好。¤(Calmly...if we follow common sense, it should be so. However, we cannot rely on common sense. It is best for you, fellow daoist, to ask as little as possible.)
而那山包却有一种极其诡异的力量，让你的神识难以寸进。¤However, that mountain range possesses an extremely eerie power that makes it difficult for your Soul Sense to penetrate.
可…寻常化神千年之后便要渡劫，道友如何做到万年不飞升？¤After a thousand years, even an ordinary deity transformation would face tribulation. Fellow Daoist, how have you managed to avoid ascending for ten thousand years?
虽说神阴石能在岛主那换到不少好处，但此刻你却视若无睹。因为你知道，那气眼中才是真正的宝物。¤Although the shenyin stone can exchange for many benefits with the island lord, you ignore it at the moment. Because you know that the qi eyes are the real treasures.
虽然表面上是称赞与感谢，但她的语气却充满了讥讽。¤Although it is praise and gratitude on the surface, her tone is full of ridicule.
（冷静地）即便如此，也要先摸清此人底细才行。¤(Calmly) Even so, we must first understand this person's background before proceeding.
多亏了你，我才能出来透透气，谢谢你啊！¤Thanks to you, I can come out for a breath of fresh air, thank you!
（邪魅地）你可是跟我说尽最大努力渡劫的，这剑里的魂体可是上好的养料，岂有不拿的道理？¤(You promised to do your best in crossing the tribulation with me. The soul body in this sword is excellent nourishment. It would be illogical not to take it.)
所幸非也所引发的骚动并未结束，你便趁机溜了出去，但心里仍在思考方才的事情。¤Fortunately, the commotion caused by nonya has not ended yet, so you took the opportunity to slip out. However, you were still thinking about the previous situation in your heart.
（冷静地）我便是她二姐，敢问阁下是何人？为何来此？¤(Calmly) I am her second sister. May I ask who you are and why you are here?
这个故事是你临时编造的，在此之前不可能有人听过。但二姐的话却让你觉得，她似乎比你更懂这只灵雀的处境。¤This story is something you made up on the spot, no one could have heard it before. But Second Sister's words make you feel like she understands this spirit bird's situation more than you do.
这么说来，你们步入化神期已经至少数万年了？！¤So, does that mean you all have already stepped into the Void Transformation for at least tens of thousands of years?!
我就轻松多了，只需要专心修炼就行了。¤I feel much more relaxed now, all I need to do is focus on cultivation.
老头，若有宝物的话，只有可能在那气眼了。¤Old man, if there's any treasure, it must be in that Qi eye.
无碍，这神阴石于我也是无用。倒是你说的数万年…究竟是什么情况？¤It's alright. This Shenyin Stone is useless to me. But, what exactly is the situation with the tens of thousands of years that you mentioned?
（腼腆地）二姐，{ta}说的很有趣，不像是在撒谎。¤(Shyly) Second sister, what {they} said is really interesting, doesn't seem like {they} are lying.
但它们根本就不是一个种族，金鹏们不愿意接纳它的原因远没有这么简单。所以最终，那只灵雀也没能如愿。¤But they are not even the same race, the reason why the golden peng refused to accept it is far from easy. So in the end, that spirit sparrow failed to achieve its goal.
她发出了一串吊诡的邪笑，你只觉不寒而栗。¤She let out a mysterious and eerie sinister laugh, causing you to shudder.
（冷静地）既然灵雀都已经花费了这么多心血，只要有一丝希望尚在，不试上一试岂会甘心？¤(Calmly) Since the Lingque has already put in so much effort, how can we be willing to give up without trying as long as there is still a glimmer of hope?
若有影响到道友修炼，在下便不再叨扰了。¤If it affects fellow daoist's cultivation, then I will no longer trouble you.
（冷静地）够了，阁下问的也够多了吧。¤Calm down, you've asked enough questions already.
“还是说…它本不是人，但是却想像人一样修炼飞升？”¤Or perhaps...it was never a human to begin with, but it desires to cultivate and ascend like one?
空气中已经开始弥漫火药味。若要如实相告，则会暴露自己的行径与目的；但若要糊弄过去，一时之间恐怕想不出什么借口。你陷入了两难的境地。¤The smell of gunpowder is already beginning to permeate the air. If you were to tell the truth, you would expose your actions and intentions; but if you were to try to come up with an excuse, you probably wouldn't be able to think of anything in the moment. You find yourself in a dilemma.
一时间，你与她纯白的眸子四目相视，但以你化神的修为，竟也看不穿她的深浅。¤At that moment, you and her pure white eyes met, but even with your deity transformation cultivation, you couldn't see through the depth of her gaze.
（邪魅地）等等，你可以走，但你背的这把剑却得留下。¤(Seductively) Wait a minute, you can leave, but you have to leave the sword you're carrying behind.
道别后，你便沿着气旋返回到了地面。¤After saying goodbye, you followed the whirlwind back to the ground.
我将我们最初的阴气铸成人类身体的样子，准确地复现了每一条经络，再将吸收阴气的过程伪装成修士修炼的过程。¤I have forged our original yin energy into the shape of a human body, accurately reproducing each meridian. Then I disguised the process of absorbing yin energy as the cultivation of a cultivator.
你根本就不知道这有多难。¤I don't know how difficult this really is.
你将一切都如实告诉了她，从看见魂体开始，到非也对岛主的怀疑…¤You told her everything truthfully, from seeing the soul body to Nonya's suspicion of the island master...
但这极阴之物对我们而言也是至关重要，阁下那朋友的算盘恐怕要落空了。¤But this extremely Yin object is also crucial to us. Your friend's plan may be in vain.
每当月环蚀出现时，阴气也会极盛，我们就可以借机做许多事情。¤Whenever a lunar eclipse occurs, Yin energy also reaches its peak, and we can take advantage of this to do many things.
（腼腆地）二姐，他现在跟那些撒谎的人一样…我不太喜欢…¤(Shyly) Second sister, he's now like those lying people...I don't really like it...
（腼腆地）不…不得罪……只是好久没人陪我说话了，突然有些不适应而已…¤(Bashfully) Please...please don't take offense...it's just been a long time since someone has talked with me, so I'm feeling a bit out of practice...
你不想暴露你来此的目的，仓促间编了一个勉强能说通的故事。¤You don't want to reveal your purpose for coming here, so you hastily concocted a barely plausible story.
对面这个问题，幽荧思考了片刻。¤Facing this problem, Ghost contemplated for a moment.
唉…好不容易有个人来，这么快就要走了…¤Ah... finally someone came, and they're leaving so soon...
既然如此，这灵雀究竟如何变成金鹏，届时我一定要见证一番。¤Since that's the case, how exactly did this spiritual sparrow transform into a golden peng? I must bear witness to it myself.
但是荧儿想要像修士一样修炼，二姐也想不出办法，她就把这个任务交给了我。¤But Ying'er wants to cultivate like a cultivator, and Second Sister couldn't think of a way, so she assigned this quest to me.
我们最开始能意识到自己存在的时候，只是一团有灵智的阴气罢了。¤When we first became aware of our existence, we were just a mass of spiritual Yin energy.
（冷静地）这便是我们的秘密了，还请阁下莫要追问。¤(Calmly) This is our secret, I ask that you not pursue it further.
此地阴气难道都被气眼吸走了？¤Has the yin energy in this area all been sucked away by the Qi vortex?
幽荧突然一愣，随即流露出痛苦的神情。¤Ghost suddenly hesitated, then displayed a painful expression.
不知道荧儿对这只灵雀怎么看？¤I don't know how Ying'er views this spirit sparrow?
否则若将三妹唤出来，只怕道友难以全身而退。¤Otherwise, if you were to call out Third Sister, fellow daoist may find it difficult to leave with their whole body intact.
（冷静地）好，一言为定。¤Calmly, okay, it's a deal.
哈哈哈哈，无妨，那便不说这些无趣的修行之事了，我来给荧儿讲个故事吧？¤Hahaha, it's okay, let's not talk about these boring cultivation matters. Shall I tell Ying'er a story?
就算会被接纳，它的年龄对于普通灵雀来说，就像是永恒的存在，又要如何像正常的灵雀一样觅食、玩耍、相爱，感受灵雀的快乐呢？¤Even if it were accepted, its age would be like an eternal existence for ordinary spirit birds. How can it find food, play, love, and experience the joy of being a spirit bird like normal ones?
（邪魅地）嘁嘁嘁嘁嘁嘁！¤(Temptingly) Tsk tsk tsk tsk tsk tsk!
听到这个问题，她的脸瞬间沉了下来。¤Her face instantly sank upon hearing this question.
此情此景之下，你想出了一个委婉试探的方法。¤Under this circumstance and scenery, you came up with a subtle and probing method.
（腼腆地）噗…这只灵雀好可爱，我喜欢~¤(Bashfully) Hehe...this spirit sparrow is so cute, I like it~
（邪魅地）哦？那就要看你有没有这个本事了。¤Oh? Then it depends on whether you have the ability or not.
气眼外是一层极其狂暴的风眼墙，但你毕竟也不是凡人。在大致估量了它的威力之后，你便加足护罩，闯了进去。¤Outside the gas eye is a level 1 extremely violent wind eye wall, but you are not an ordinary person after all. After roughly estimating its power, you added a shield and rushed in.
眼前的魔物上半身被颜色诡异的鳞片包裹着，双爪锋利且尖锐。最为惹眼的是胸部正中的晶体，在昏暗的光下闪烁着妖异的光彩。¤The upper body of the spiritual beast in front of me is covered in scales with strange colors, and its claws are sharp and pointed. The most striking thing is the crystal in the center of its chest, which glimmers with a mysterious luster in the dim light.
一只低阶魔物突然从旁冲出，挡住了你前行的道路。¤A low-level spirit beast suddenly rushed out from the side, blocking the path ahead of you.
这位客官想要看些什么，各种炼器材料我百宝行应有尽有。¤Good sir, what would you like to see? The Hundred Treasure House has all kinds of refining materials available.
不止这位{FirstName}师妹，我看你们门派的白露师妹也是身手不凡。¤Not just this {FirstName}'s junior sister, I see that the junior sister Bai Lu from your sect also has remarkable skills.
（低声）哼...虚伪的男人，瞧刚刚徐凡得胜时你那得意的样子。¤(Whispering) Hmph...fake man, look at how proud you were when Xu Fan won just now.
小{shidi}今天看起来状态不错。¤{shidi} looks quite energetic today.
慕容师姐，贵派真是人才辈出啊！¤Senior Sister Murong, your sect truly produces outstanding talents!
好大口气！各大修仙门派多的是奇功妙法，就不知道友有没有能耐进去了。¤What a grandiose statement! The various sects of cultivation are abound with miraculous and wondrous techniques. I don't know if my fellow Daoist has the ability to enter.
都太低级了，来点更强的功法？¤Are these all too low-level? Can you offer me some stronger techniques?
定眼向中心看去，一个人跌坐在法阵中间，四周已有数人毙倒仅剩一人勉力维护法阵。¤Fixing his gaze on the center, he saw a person sitting dazedly in the middle of the formation. Several people lay prone around him, leaving only one person struggling to maintain the formation.
远处一阵焰浪四散开来。¤A burst of flames scattered in the distance.
轰~{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Boom~{vpunch=10,0.5}
不过，你现在身处死门，等我封住你的神魂。我必不会杀你，我要每日定亲手抽出的你精血，日日折磨你。¤However, you are currently trapped in the death gate. Once I seal your soul, I will not kill you. Instead, I will extract drops of your blood every day and torture you relentlessly.
呼~~嘿嘿嘿，钟道友本门这奇门绝魂阵你觉得如何啊？¤Hu~~ Hey hey hey, fellow daoist Zhong, what do you think of this qimen jue soul array of our sect?
哼，又来个找死的。¤Hmph, another one looking for death.
咳咳，这阵法倒是精妙，不过布阵之人属实不行。¤Cough cough, this array is indeed ingenious, but the person who set it up is really not capable.
哼，若不是护法吩咐了活捉你，又怎会如此麻烦。¤Hmph, if it weren't for the Protector's order to capture you alive, why would it be so troublesome.
笑话，今天我便是要取你性命。¤Joke, today I am going to take your life.
在下慕名前来，只为讨教一番。¤I came here to learn from you.
不错，你倒是有几分实力，不过要是再打下去，可就没这么简单了。¤Not bad, you actually have some strength, but if we keep fighting, it won't be so easy.
哈哈哈哈，之前一时技痒多有得罪，看来吞云大圣果然名不虚传。¤Hahaha, I really offended some people before with my actions. It seems like the Cloud Swallowing Saint truly lives up to his reputation.
因为只有成为了内门弟子才能，选择一脉拜师加入，不过要是能取得门派大比的魁首倒是也能拜长老为师。¤As only an inner disciple can choose to join a sect, but if one can become the champion of the sect's grand competition, they can also become an elder's disciple.
师兄过奖了。¤Senior brother, you are too kind.
恭喜{shidi}通过擂台赛的考验，以后你就是我们竹山宗的外门弟子了。¤Congratulations {shidi} for passing the arena test, from now on you will be an outer disciple of our Bamboo Mountain Sect.
你成为了第一个能够赢得擂台胜利的挑战者，台下赞许声不绝于耳...¤You have become the first challenger to win the arena victory, with continuous applause from the audience below...
你第一个上场就战胜了竹山宗的外门弟子，场下一片哗然...¤You were the first to step onto the stage and defeat the outer disciples of Bamboo Mountain Sect, causing a commotion among the audience...
没过多久，剩下的比试便都结束了，除了你以外，再没有一个人能在擂台上获得胜利。¤Not long after, all the remaining matches were over, and except for you, no one else was able to win on the arena.
李青麟赞许地望了你一眼。¤Li Qinglin glanced at you approvingly.
{FirstName}{shidi}，久等了吧。¤{FirstName} junior apprentice, you have waited for a long time.
劳烦师兄了。¤Senior brother, please help me out.
这是为何？？¤What is this for?
师弟，没什么要注意的了，你自己走走吧，记得去神兵堂领符器。¤Junior, there is nothing else to note. You can go on your own. Remember to go to the Divine Weapon Pavilion to collect your runic weapon.
幻雾阵其中许多前辈留下的意识形成的灵体，供弟子历练，提升心境和实战经验。但传闻也有高人前辈留下传承考验在其中，静候有缘人了。¤In the Mirage Mist Array, many spiritual bodies formed by the consciousness left by senior predecessors are available for disciples to practice and enhance their mental state and combat experience. However, there are also rumors that some senior experts have left their legacies within it, waiting for those who are destined to inherit them.
药田，竹山宗以培植灵植闻名，其中十数万年的先天乙木、金雷竹更是十分珍贵，弟子可以帮忙照顾灵植，换取修炼资源。¤The Herbs Field and Bamboo Mountain Sect are renowned for cultivating spiritual plants, including the extremely precious Preternatural Ethereal Wood and Golden Thunder Bamboo, which are over ten thousand years old. Disciples can offer help in taking care of the spiritual plants in exchange for cultivation resources.
方壶山乃是门下资产由金丹期长老驻守，其中有一条灵石矿脉，同时饲养灵兽的御灵监，也在上面。弟子可以执行矿脉巡逻等任务，换取修炼资源。¤Fang Hu Mountain is guarded by an elder at the Golden Core stage, and there is a vein of ore and a spirit beast monitoring station on it. Disciples can perform tasks such as patrolling the ore veins in exchange for cultivation resources.
哼，就凭你也想进我竹山宗。¤Hmph, with your abilities, you still want to join my Bamboo Mountain Sect.
哈哈哈，{shidi}有所不知，你可是最近几年来唯一一个可以通过外门擂台挑战的人。¤Hahaha, {shidi} is unaware that you are the only one in recent years who can challenge the outer sect arena.
不说这些了，{shidi}刚入门，还有诸多事情要办。你先带上我这块信物，去{color=#d0380a}神兵阁{/color}领取门派配属的符器和道袍，然后{color=#d0380a}再回来找我{/color}。¤Let's not talk about these things anymore. {shidi} has just joined the sect and there are many things to do. First, take this token and go to the {color=#d0380a}divine warrior pavilion{/color} to receive the runic weapon and sect robe assigned to you, then {color=#d0380a}come back to me{/color}.
对了，本门的上乘功法，皆拜师之后习得；不过这是你我突破进入筑基期才能考虑的事情。¤By the way, our sect's top-tier techniques can only be learned after becoming disciples. However, this is something we can only consider after making a breakthrough and entering the foundation establishment stage.
那擂台之上的可是真正修习过竹山宗功法的外门弟子，又岂是寻常的散修能够战胜的。{shidi}年纪虽轻，但攻守有度，我看刚刚连大师兄都对你的表现颇为赞许。¤On that arena, there were only outer disciples who have truly practiced the techniques of Bamboo Mountain Sect, and not something that wandering cultivators can easily defeat. {shidi} might be young, but you have a good balance of offense and defense. I saw even Senior Brother was impressed by your performance just now.
你带着疑惑来到这水晶面前，开始仔细端详了起来。¤You approached the crystal with curiosity and began to scrutinize it carefully.
约莫半炷香时间，你二人终于走到了楼梯尽头——一间孤独的静室。¤After about half an incense stick's worth of time, you two finally arrived at the end of the stairs a lonely quiet room.
水晶随即爆发出恐怖的吸引力，将你的神魂尽数吸引而去。¤The crystal immediately emitted a terrifying gravity, completely sucking away your soul.
怪哉，若不是在此地，这水晶我定会认作凡品。¤Strange, if I weren't in this place, I would have mistaken this crystal for an ordinary item.
我也看不清其中玄机…¤I also can't see the mystery in it...
但尽管如此，你仍看不出这些光究竟有何玄机。¤However, even so, you still cannot see the mystery behind these lights.
抱着这样的想法，你控制神识向水晶的中心探去。¤With this idea in mind, you guide your soul sense towards the center of the crystal.
难道说只有在特定的位置，这些光才会组成有意义的画面？¤Does it mean that only in specific locations, these lights will form meaningful pictures?
你不自觉地将神识凝聚到水晶上——水晶内部竟然并非实心，而是由一层层薄如蝉翼的水晶膜构成。¤You unconsciously concentrate your soul sense onto the crystal the interior of the crystal is not solid, but instead is composed of layers upon layers of crystal membranes as thin as cicada wings.
你展开神识想朝四周探测一番，却遭到了不知何物的阻挠，难以寸进。¤You tried to expand your soul sense to explore the surroundings, but encountered an unknown obstruction, making it difficult to proceed.
阁下只需静坐下来，仔细观察这水晶便可。¤You just need to sit down and carefully observe this crystal.
水晶膜上的光也并非原本的深蓝色，而是五彩斑斓。这些光也并非静止状态，而是在不同层面上来回窜动。¤The light on the crystal film was not the original dark blue, but rather a colorful display. These lights were also not stationary, but were constantly moving on different levels.
原来如此…多谢阁主。¤Oh, I see... thank you, master of the house.
仔细看去，只见水晶在四周火光的照耀下仍旧黯淡失色，丝毫没有绝世机缘的气息。¤Looking closely, one could see that the crystal remained dull and lackluster under the illumination of the surrounding flames, without the slightest hint of the aura of an unparalleled opportunity.
说罢，阁主转身便要离去，但你此刻仍无半点头绪。情急之下，你只得喊住了阁主。¤Finished speaking, the sect leader turned around and was about to leave, but at this moment you still had no clue. In desperation, you had to call out to the sect leader.
此地乃我阁立阁之本，各方面防卫都极为严密，还望阁下见谅。¤This is the foundation of our pavilion, and our defenses are extremely tight in all aspects. I hope you can forgive us.
…无妨。¤It doesn't matter.
静室异常空旷。除了几根石柱，火把以外，就只剩下中间斑驳的石台，以及石台上悬浮着的一块深蓝色水晶。¤The quiet room was unusually empty. Apart from a few stone pillars and torches, there was only the mottled stone platform in the center, and a dark blue crystal hovering above it.
…敢问阁主，此物空无一字，当须如何领悟？¤May I ask, Master, how to achieve enlightenment from this object that has no words?
藏宝楼下方，是一条狭长的旋转楼梯，深不见底。¤Below the Treasure House was a narrow spiral staircase that seemed to go down endlessly.
这块水晶咋看上去与寻常水晶无二，可一旦你开始专注地观察它，它便有一种神奇的力量始终吸引着你的神魂。¤This crystal looks no different from ordinary ones, but once you start to observe it attentively, it exerts a kind of magical power that constantly draws in your soul.
待你确认完周遭情况之后，阁主伸手指向了石台上的水晶。¤After you confirm the situation around you, the Sect Leader stretched out his hand and pointed to the crystal on the stone platform.
呵呵呵，道友莫要心急。越是接近大道，所表达的内容便越是难以用文字表述。¤Hehehe, fellow daoist, do not be too impatient. The closer one gets to the Dao, the harder it is to express its essence through words.
这便是所谓的太虚境，阁下自行领悟便是，范某便先行告退了。¤This is what is known as the Great Void Dimension. You can attain enlightenment on your own. Fan Mou will take his leave now.
就在到达中心的那一瞬，水晶膜上的光恰好构成一幅幅真实的画面。¤Just as they reached the center, the light on the crystal film formed realistic images.
虽然不知道那白袍修士要监视宁王府中一个普通的女眷是为何，但以你在府内的供奉身份，做到这点也并不困难。¤Although I don't know why that white-caped cultivator is monitoring a common female member of the Ning King's Manor, it is not difficult for you to do so as a guest elder in the manor.
到了夜里，她竟偷偷地离开了王府，向城外走去。你只好远远地跟了上去...¤At night, she secretly left the Wangfu and headed towards the outskirts of the city. You could only follow from afar...
平日里未曾察觉，但仔细监视一段时间后，你确实发现这名女子行动之中的颇多异常之处。大部分时间她都独自一人在府内走动，颇为警觉，也很少与其他妾女有什么交集。¤Unnoticed on ordinary days, but upon careful observation, you do realize that there are many abnormalities in this woman's actions. Most of the time, she walks around the estate alone, very alert, and rarely interacts with other concubines.
师兄这句话是对你说的，你还不明白了么？¤Senior brother said these words to you, don't you understand?
后来藏在暗处的古神教也伺机偷袭想要夺剑，不过那玄骨上人被一直在暗处戒备的星宫宫主拖住，另外一个恶饕老祖也被我拦了下来。¤Later on, the ancient god sect, who had been lurking in the dark, attempted to launch a sneak strike in order to seize the sword. However, the Star Palace Master, who had been on guard in the shadows, managed to stall the Xuanhuan Patriarch Gluttonous, while I intercepted another one.
呼，这我就放心了...¤Ah, I can finally relax...
我...白帝楼楼主？可是我从来没有...¤Am I... the master of the White Emperor Pavilion? But I have never...
自从师兄开始准备渡劫以后，白帝楼内外事宜都已经是你在打理了。楼内无论从修为还是声望来看，都没有比你更适合接手白帝楼楼主一职的人了。¤Ever since senior brother started preparing for his tribulation, you have been in charge of everything inside and outside the White Emperor Pavilion. In terms of cultivation and reputation, no one is more suitable than you to take over as the master of the White Emperor Pavilion.
师祖...师祖他渡劫成功了么？¤Master...has he successfully crossed his tribulation?
诸位化神前辈与那恶饕间发生了一场混战，师兄也被迫出手。最后我们虽然打败了恶饕，另外三柄魔剑却被一直暗中伺机的血剑宫夺了去。¤During the conflict between the deities, some senior brothers were forced to intervene to stop the battle with the evil gluttons. Ultimately, we were able to defeat the evil gluttons, but the Blood Sword Palace secretly took away the other three demon swords.
最重要的是，白帝楼楼主要嫉恶如仇，更要以铲灭魔修为己任...倪兄，你一直是最适合的那个人选。¤The most important thing is that the master of the White Emperor Pavilion must be implacable towards evil and see eradicating demonic cultivators as their duty...Brother Ni, you have always been the best candidate for this role.
师兄他成功渡劫，如今应该已经飞升上界了吧。¤Senior brother successfully crossed the tribulation. He should have ascended to the higher realm by now.
哎...可惜师祖没让我跟他一起去，不然我一定能帮上忙的！¤Ah...Unfortunately, my master didn't let me go with him. Otherwise, I would definitely be able to help!
白帝楼本身只是一个松散的剑修组织，即便身为楼主，也未必需要花费大量的时间管理。¤The White Emperor Pavilion itself is just a loosely organized group of sword cultivators. Even as the pavilion master, one may not necessarily need to spend a lot of time managing it.
这次我们终于成功拖到师兄渡劫成功，剩下的那些魔门也只能无功而返了。¤This time, we finally managed to wait for our senior brother to successfully overcome his tribulation. The remaining demonic cultivators could only return empty-handed.
那天魔道的两位尊者也绝非泛泛之辈，若非有灵尊相助，恐怕难以抵挡。¤The two Heavenly Demon Cult disciples are not ordinary people, and without the help of a Spirit Venerate, it would be difficult to resist.
不只是这样，师兄还说了此番无论他渡劫成功与否，白帝楼都要交到你们这些后辈的手上。¤Not only that, Senior Brother also said that regardless of whether he successfully crosses his tribulation or not, the White Emperor Pavilion will be handed over to you younger generations.
都怪我...如果我也在场的话，一定能帮上忙的...¤It's all my fault... If I were there, I could definitely be of help...
这血剑宫的血亢剑仙实力应该不在师兄之下，就连混元子前辈都很难与他抗衡。¤The strength of Xue Kang, the High Blood Sword Immortal of the Blood Sword Palace, should be no less than that of Senior Brother, and even Senior Primordial Child Chaos would find it difficult to contend with him.
师兄他在渡劫时被魔门偷袭，没能...¤My senior brother was sneak attacked by the demonic sect during his tribulation and couldn't...
这次师兄渡劫选择的地方是一座孤岛...¤This time, Senior Brother chose a solitary island for tribulation...
这...这怎么可能...到底发生了什么事？¤This...this is impossible...what exactly happened?
后来藏在暗处的古神教也伺机偷袭想要夺剑，虽说那玄骨上人被一直在暗处戒备的星宫宫主拖住，但那古神教老祖恶饕却不好对付。¤Later on, the ancient god sect, hiding in the shadows, also seized the opportunity to sneak strike and try to seize the sword. Although the mysterious bone hermit was held back by the star palace master who had been on guard in the dark, the ancient god sect ancestor, E Tiao, was not easy to deal with.
那...那后来呢？你们支撑到师祖渡劫完成了么？¤So...what happened after that? Did you all hold on until our master completed his tribulation?
你从白帝准备渡劫开始，一直讲到魔门前来夺剑。倪旭欣听的津津有味，不停地向你问这问那...¤From the preparation of the tribulation by the White Emperor, you've been telling the story until the Demon Sect came to steal the sword. Ni Xuxin was listening with great interest, constantly asking you various questions...
师祖...是觉得我实力不济么...¤Master... do you think my strength is insufficient?
你从白帝准备渡劫开始，一直讲到魔门前来夺剑。倪旭欣只是呆呆的楞在那里，似乎还无法接受这个事实。¤From the moment the White Emperor prepared to cross the tribulation, you talked until the Demon Gate came to snatch the sword. Ni Xuxin just stood there in a daze, as if he couldn't accept this fact yet.
可惜这次我没能亲眼见证师祖飞升，{FirstName}{xiongdi}快与我讲讲当时的情景吧！¤Unfortunately, I wasn't able to witness our master's ascension with my own eyes. {FirstName}, could you please tell me about the scene at that time, {xiongdi}?
还记得师兄他临走前对你说的话么？¤Do you still remember what Senior Brother said to you before he left?
师兄他自知到时候无暇顾及你的安危，因此才特意把你留下的。¤Senior brother knows that he won't have time to take care of your safety at that time, so he deliberately left you behind.
倪兄，你知道师兄他为什么不让你去么？¤Brother Ni, do you know why Senior Brother doesn't want you to go?
嗯...师祖让我镇守白帝楼，避免被魔门偷袭？¤Uh... my Master instructed me to guard the White Emperor Pavilion, to prevent any sneak strikes from the Demon Sect?
所幸血剑宫那个血河老祖实力很是一般，我解决了他以后才得以抽出手来帮助其他前辈。¤Luckily, the Blood Sword Palace's senior, Patriarch Blood River, had only average strength. After dealing with him, I was able to free up my hands to help other seniors.
其实我和师兄早就料到这次飞升魔门会来夺剑，所以才提前邀请其他化神前辈助阵。¤Actually, my senior brother and I anticipated that the Fiend Sect would come to snatch the sword during this ascension, so we invited other senior deity transformation cultivators to help ahead of time.
谢谢你，{FirstName}{xiongdi}。我知道我该怎么做了。¤Thank you, {FirstName} brother. I know what I must do now.
{FirstName}供奉放心，敖灵会在这里为你护法，绝不会让任何人打扰你渡劫。¤{FirstName}, rest assured that as your guest elder, I will have Ao Ling protect you here during your tribulation. No one will disturb you.
随着你又一次击散她的阴体，她凭空在你的神识中消失了。究竟是被你彻底击散了，还是以你不知道的形式去了其他地方，你不知道。¤As you once again shattered her yin body, she vanished from your soul sense. Whether she was completely shattered by you or went to other places in a way that you don't know, you don't know.
先回去再说吧…¤Let's go back first and talk about it later...
这次我真的以为要交代在这了…还好你能胜过她。¤I really thought it was over this time... luckily you were able to defeat her.
老头，你还好么？¤Old man, are you alright?
竖子无知！能成为延寿丹乃为我等增添寿元乃是他们的福分，我天魔......¤You ignorant fool! Being able to cultivate the Greater Longevity Pill and gain lifespan is a blessing for us heavenly demons...
你暗道一身不妙，刚要追上去，只听“嗖”的一身，一道凌厉剑气破空而来，将那名子弟捅个对穿。¤You felt a sense of danger, and were about to go after them when suddenly, with a swoosh, a sharp sword qi pierced through the air and pierced the body of the young disciple, leaving him with a through-and-through wound.
宁王背靠玄道宗这棵大树，怎么会与你们同流合污？¤With the support of the Xuan Dao Sect, why would Prince Ning align himself with the likes of you and dirty his reputation?
凡人寿数总有尽时，唯有我道炼药秘法可青春永驻！¤Mortal lifespans always have an end, only my Taoist alchemy secret method can keep youth forever!
那名天魔道弟子见事态不妙，化作一道血光，扭头便要跑。¤The Heavenly Demon Cult Disciple saw the situation was not good and morphed into a streak of blood light, turning his head to escape.
哼，要不是我们，你以为区区枯木功就能守住他的性命吗？玄道宗又如何，面对长生还不是要乖乖让路！¤Hmph, if it weren't for us, do you think deadwood skill alone could have saved his life? And as for Xuan Dao Sect, faced with eternal life, they would still obediently step aside!
呵呵，这点你不必知道。¤Hehe, you don't need to know about this.
呼...既然此事与魔门有关，还是回白帝楼汇报一番吧。¤Sigh... Since this matter is related to the Demon Sect, I should report back to the White Emperor Pavilion.
你们混进宁王府的目的究竟是什么？！¤What is your purpose for sneaking into the Ning King's Manor?!
我奉命调查王府也有些日子了，你这次算是帮了我一个小忙，那我也赠你一份机缘。¤I've been investigating the Wang Family for quite some time now, and you've helped me with a small favor. So, I'll give you a chance as well.
你如今还是筑基修为，这本{color=#d0380a}结丹用的秘术{/color}刚好适合你用，你且拿着好生领悟，对未来结丹多有帮助。¤You currently have foundation building cultivation. This {color=#d0380a}secret art for core formation{/color} is perfectly suited for you. Take it and enlightened yourself to aid in your future core formation.
炼药......？你们谋害那些修士竟是为了炼丹？！¤Refining medicine...? You're plotting against those cultivators just to refine alchemy?!
说完这些，他哈哈一笑，便化作一道遁光，消失不见了。¤After saying these words, he smiled and turned into a streak of light, disappearing from sight.
呵呵，在下恰好有几分敛息的手段罢了，不值一提。¤Oh, I happen to possess some restraint techniques, but they're not worth mentioning.
话音未落，他原本狂妄的表情骤然变得惊恐万分。你正想询问缘由时，一股诡异的灵力扩散开，那黑袍老人的躯体以扭曲的姿势摆动着。不消多时他浑身骨肉化成一滩腥臭的黑水...¤Before he could finish speaking, his originally arrogant expression suddenly became one of extreme fear. Just as you were about to inquire about the reason, a strange spiritual power expanded and the old man in black robes twisted and contorted. In no time at all, his whole body turned into a stinky black water...
混进？我们才是宁王府真正的座上宾，那些散修也配和我等相提并论？¤Sneak in? We are the true honored guests of Ning King's Manor. Do those wandering cultivators even deserve to be mentioned in the same breath as us?
总之，宁王府的事情牵扯众多，这本与你无关，了解太多对你也没有什么好处。¤In any case, the matter concerning Ning King's Manor is complicated and has nothing to do with you. Knowing too much will not benefit you.
道友不必惊慌，我对你没有恶意，刚才见那名魔道弟子要跑，这才替你出手拦截。¤Fellow Daoist, please don't panic. I mean you no harm. I just intervened on your behalf when I saw that disciple of the demonic path trying to escape.
嗯，也不知当初伤他的人手段何等诡异，竟要用这种凶险的方式疗伤。¤Hmm, I don't know what kind of bizarre methods were used by the person who injured him originally, to the extent that such a dangerous method was used to treat his injuries.
嗯？这动静是涅槃成功了？¤Hmm? Has there been success in achieving Nirvana?
话音未落，一阵远胜之前的生机从麟庙下层迸发而出。¤Before the voice even fell, a burst of vitality far stronger than before erupted from the lower level of the Lin Temple.
看来是渡过了第八劫。¤It seems that you have crossed the eighth calamity.
这方空间的灵气一瞬间被吸入麟庙。¤The spiritual energy of this space was instantly drawn into the Lin Temple.
这九转涅槃诀也是门凶险异常的奇功，刚刚生机散尽若是稍有差池便是身死道消。¤The Nine Turns Nirvana Mantra is a technique of extreme danger. If even the slightest mishap occurs during the practice and one's vitality dissipates, death is inevitable.
“咚..咚..咚..”刚一步入宗门，阵阵心跳声从麟庙中传出。¤Thump.. thump.. thump.. As soon as I stepped into the sect, the sound of heartbeats echoed from the Lin Temple.
突然，麟庙下层的生机熄灭。¤Suddenly, the vitality of the lower level of Lin Temple vanished.
尔等莫要慌乱，本座小有突破罢了。¤Don't panic, everyone. I have made a breakthrough.
一株灵药引起了你的注意...原来是{SayStcVal=948}。¤You notice a spiritual plant...Turns out it's {SayStcVal=948}.
遁速不足的你，在阵中相形见绌只得退回来。¤With insufficient speed, you fall behind in the battle formation and can only retreat.
不好！¤Not good!
眼前的是一座{$Var}的防御阵法。¤Before your eyes is a {$Var} imperial array defense formation.
你凭借遁速强闯而过，但还是难免狼狈。¤You rely on your speed to rush through, but still cannot avoid some embarrassment.
呼~~¤Hoo~~
你通过对{$wudaoname2}的领悟，通过了此地阵法。¤You have passed through this formation through your enlightenment of {$wudaoname2}.
你通过对{$wudaoname1}的领悟，通过了此地阵法。¤Through your enlightenment of {$wudaoname1}, you have succeeded in passing through this array.
对{$wudaoname1}的领悟，难以通过此地阵法。¤Enlightenment regarding {$wudaoname1} is difficult to attain through this array.
你御起{$Var1}，抽空此方空间灵气，使得此地阵法暂时失效，通过了此地阵法。¤You activate the {$Var1} array, drawing away the spiritual energy from this area and temporarily disabling the array here, allowing you to pass through it.
对{$wudaoname2}的领悟，难以通过此地阵法。¤It's difficult to achieve enlightenment for {$wudaoname2} through this array.
此事我早已筹划多年，人多了倒未必方便行事。¤I have been planning this for many years. Having many people might not necessarily make things easier.
会的¤Understood
多亏你的建议，和从小修炼引火之术的基础，现在我已能够完全掌控这异火了。¤Thanks to your advice and my foundation in cultivating the setting fire technique since I was young, I am now able to fully control this different fire.
何况...这本就应该由我一人承担，我必须要亲手取他们的性命！¤Besides, this is something that I alone should bear. I must take their lives with my own hands!
若是暗中偷袭，逐一击破，我有信心取他们性命。¤If sneak striking them one by one in the dark, I am confident I can take their lives.
我就要出发了，还有什么事么？¤I'm about to leave, is there anything else?
也算是有惊无险，先回去复命吧。¤It can be considered a narrow escape, let's go back and report first.
一番搜查，并无收获，接下来的时间也是风平浪静。¤After a thorough search, there were no results, and the following time was also calm.
你将见闻告知他，¤You shall tell him what you have heard and seen.
此人是谁？明明只是炼气中期的气息，战斗力却如此之强，且功法神通却完全与我宁州大陆不同。¤Who is this person? Although they only have the mid qi refining level of cultivation, their combat power is so strong. Moreover, their techniques and divine skills are completely different from those in our Ningzhou continent.
算了，先发信号示警吧。¤Never mind, let's send a signal to alert them first.
那人是谁？明明只是炼气中期的气息，但功法神通却完全与我宁州大陆不同。¤Who is that person? Even though they only have the mid qi refining level of cultivation, their techniques and divine skills are completely different from those in my homeland of Ningzhou.
师弟，发生了何事？¤Junior, what happened?
我们通知师兄弟查探一番。¤We notified senior brother to investigate the matter.
而且，另一个人又是谁？方壶山是我竹山宗地界外人难以进入，他们为何在此碰头？¤Moreover, who is the other person? Fang Hu Mountain is beyond the territory of Bamboo Mountain Sect and it's difficult for outsiders to enter. Why did they meet here?
此行至少知道了些情报，先回去复命吧。¤At least we've gathered some information on this trip. Let's go back and report it.
师弟，刚刚此地灵气波动剧烈，发生了何事？¤Junior, the spiritual energy in this area just fluctuated heavily. What happened?
还好我遁术不差。¤Thankfully, my mobility skills are not lacking.
而且，另一个人又是谁？方壶山是我竹山宗地界外人难以进入，他们为何在此碰头？难道有内鬼？¤Moreover, who is the other person? Fang Hu Mountain is located outside the jurisdiction of Bamboo Mountain Sect, so why did they meet here? Could there be a traitor among us?
下面开始本届英杰会决赛的比试，请刚刚晋级的两名选手上台！¤The final match of this year's Young Hero's Tournament is now beginning. Please have the two players who have just advanced to the finals come up to the stage!
（作揖）在下公孙季，初次见面，请道友赐教。¤(Bows) I am Gongsun Ji, it's our first meeting. Fellow Daoist, please advise me.
沸腾的人群突然安静下来，只见一名身着白袍的俊朗公子，轻摇折扇，缓步走上台来，面带笑意地看着你。¤The boiling crowd suddenly quieted down, only to see a handsome young man in a white robe, lightly shaking his folding fan, slowly walking up to the stage, looking at you with a smile on his face.
你这{xiaozi}才修炼没几日，能过第二轮就已经算不错了。¤You, {xiaozi}, have only been cultivating for a few days. It's already good enough to advance to the second round.
好不容易进了第三轮...真不甘心...¤It's really frustrating to have just made it to the third round after all the effort...
对面修为不弱，输了便是技不如人，没什么好垂头丧气的。¤The opponent's cultivation is not weak. Losing simply means being inferior in skill, there's no need to be too downcast.
一阵香风飘过，只见一名蒙面少女轻轻落在台上，一双美目好奇地打量着你。¤A fragrant breeze swept by, and only a masked young girl gently landed on the stage, her beautiful eyes curiously examining you.
当然用不了三个回合，打赢你，两个回合就够了。¤Of course, I won't need three rounds. To defeat you, two rounds are enough.
恭喜{FirstName}{LastName}选手获得这一轮比试的胜利！¤Congratulations to {FirstName}{LastName} for winning this round of the competition!
这么久不见，不知道你的修为长进了没有？¤It's been so long, I don't know if your cultivation has improved or not?
下面开始本届英杰会决赛的比试，{FirstName}道友，你这次的对手是林小姐。¤The competition for the final round of the young hero's tournament will now commence. {FirstName} fellow Daoist, your opponent this round will be Miss Lin.
哼，请指教！¤Hmph, please enlighten me!
{FirstName}道友，我们又见面了，还请赐教。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, we meet again. Please enlighten me once more.
哈哈哈，{xiongdi}，没想到咱们会在这英杰会的决赛上遇到。¤Hahaha, {xiongdi}, I didn't expect us to meet in the finals of the Young Hero's Tournament.
这姑娘...炼气期就有这等神识，真是不简单，你可要小心了。¤This girl... having such a strong soul sense at the qi refining stage, she's truly extraordinary. You should be careful.
升仙台下的人群突然沸腾了起来，一名身材健壮的大汉纵身越上擂台，走到你的面前...¤The crowd below the ascension terrace suddenly boiled with excitement. A burly man leaped onto the arena and walked towards you...
这...这是幻象么？¤Is...is this an illusion?
你正庆幸自己躲过一劫时，眼前的景象却突然扭曲起来，刚刚被你击败的修士面容变换，又重新向你攻来。¤As you were feeling fortunate to have narrowly escaped danger, the scenery before you suddenly distorted. The countenance of the cultivator you had just defeated transformed and launched another attack towards you.
竟能同时拥有四柄魔剑，他到底是谁？¤Who exactly is able to possess four demon swords at the same time?
待他回头再看时，却发现火麒麟、混元子及明山三人却是在慢悠悠地聊着天，宛如散步一般，如此悠然却也未被劫云吞噬。¤When he turned around to take a look, he found that the Fire Qilin, Primordial Child, and the three Ming Mountain individuals were leisurely chatting as if taking a relaxed walk, and yet they were not being devoured by the calamitous clouds.
不过他虽然可恨，但仙子要为了他和这么多化神交手，可不值得啊。不如我们...¤However, although he is despicable, it is not worth it for the fairy to fight so many deity transformations for him. Why don't we...
你自知不是化神强者的对手，连忙躲至众人身后。血河老祖见此嚣张的大笑起来，转而冲向了白鹿真人。¤You knew that you weren't a match for the Deity Transformation experts, so you quickly hid behind the others. Patriarch Blood River chuckled at this and then charged towards Paragon White Deer.
万物皆属造化，唯灵气被修士夺。这造化劫虽威力不大，却有消融灵气护罩之能，是极为难缠的雷劫啊。¤All things belong to creation, but spiritual energy is stolen by cultivators. Although the creation tribulation is not very powerful, it has the ability to dissolve the shield of spiritual energy, making it an extremely difficult thunder kalpa.
未等明山说完，只见一道剑气划过天际，竟硬生生的将刚刚聚集起来的天雷劫云一劈为二。¤Before Mingshan could even finish speaking, a sword qi streaked across the sky and forcefully split the previously gathering clouds of heavenly tribulation in half.
火麒麟迎上红莲，混元子对上血亢...正魔两道的化神转瞬间便战作一团，而刚刚一直站在血薇身后的血河老祖，此时也正一脸坏笑的看着你。¤The Fire Qilin confronted the Red Lotus, while the Primordial Child clashed with Blood River... The Deity Transformations of both sides, good and evil, instantly formed a chaotic battle. Meanwhile, Blood River Patriarch, who had been standing behind Blood Wei, was now looking at you with an evil grin.
化神强者之间，轻易不愿交战。你明白，宁州的诸位化神强者虽出于情分答应替白帝护法，却不至于为此赌上性命，以领域相争。¤The powerful Deity Transformation experts are hesitant to engage in battles with each other. As you may understand, while the Deity Transformation experts of Ningzhou have agreed to protect the White Emperor out of friendship, they are not willing to risk their lives and fight for dominance using their domains.
{size=31}噢？第三道竟是造化劫，有趣。{/size}¤{size=31}Oh? The third one is the creation tribulation, how interesting.{/size}
这心魔劫按说只有渡劫者心境不稳时才会出现。凌老儿怎么会...¤This Heart Demon Tribulation should only appear when the mental state of those crossing the tribulation is unstable. How could Elder Ling...
让凌轩把戮仙剑交出来，我可以放他一条生路。¤Let Ling Xuan hand over the Immortal Executing Sword and I can spare his life.
不过，白鹿真人看到你也站在他侧边不远处，本在他脸上若隐若现的窘迫似乎是消散了去。¤However, the Expert Paragon White Deer seemed to have eased his embarrassment, which was faintly visible on his face earlier, upon seeing you standing not far from his side.
{size=31}下一道雷劫？{/size}¤{size=31}Next Thunder Kalpa？{/size}
{vpunch=10,0.5}藏头露尾之辈，给本座出来！¤You cowardly sneak, show yourself to me with {vpunch=10,0.5} full force!
你点点头，一旁的白鹿真人闻言也是若有所思。¤You nod, and the expert Paragon White Deer standing beside you seems to be lost in thought at these words.
血亢剑仙此言当真？¤Is High Blood Sword Immortal serious about this statement?
闻言，众人皆抬头望向天空，只见刚刚紫色的劫云又逐渐转为黑色，光是看着便让你感觉心像被石头压着一样，有着难以喘息的感觉。¤Upon hearing this, everyone looked up at the sky, only to see the previously purple calamity clouds gradually turning black. Just looking at it made you feel as though your heart was being crushed by a stone and left you with a suffocating sensation.
薇儿，不要急。¤Wei'er, don't rush.
要开始了，{shidi}。¤It's about to begin, {junior fellow}.
今日在这劫云之下，我定不会辜负这一称号！¤Today, under the robbery clouds, I will definitely not live up to this title!
我修真千余载，其间辗转多地。学道于宁州，悟道于中州，卫道于雍州，如今终于是受到此界的压制，不得不渡劫迎接飞升。¤I have practiced cultivation for more than a thousand years, traveling to many places along the way. I studied Dao in Ningzhou, gained enlightenment in Zhongzhou, defended the Dao in Yongzhou, and now I am finally being suppressed by the world, and must undergo tribulation as I prepare to ascend.
不过这下一道雷劫，可就没有那么好对付了。¤However, this thunder kalpa is not so easy to handle.
这前几道威能稍小的雷劫，一般来说会在天雷劫，风火劫和阴阳劫中...¤The first few thunder kalpas with relatively weaker power usually occur during the heavenly tribulation, wind and fire tribulation, and yin yang tribulation...
{size=31}小娃儿不用担心，除非是是执意要与它抗衡，不然它也就是将修士驱赶开罢了。{/size}¤{size=31}Little one, don't worry. Unless it is determined to compete with cultivators, it will just drive them away. {/size}
两道遁光闪过，只见一男一女两人出现在血剑宫众人身旁，想来便是血亢口中提到的天魔道尊者。¤Two beams of light flashed by, and before the people of the Blood Sword Palace appeared a man and a woman. It is likely that they are the Heavenly Demon Cult Disciples mentioned by Xue Kang.
火麒麟冷哼一声，随即化作一团巨大的火球，正拦在那红芒之前。¤The Fire Qilin snorted coldly, then transformed into a huge fireball, blocking the red light.
见状，白鹿真人脸色虽是未变，但不自觉地，身形快上了几分。那乌云也是识趣地放弃了将他笼罩在内的“想法”。¤Seeing this, Expert Paragon White Deer's face remained unchanged, but unconsciously, his figure became faster. The dark clouds were also sensible and gave up their plan to envelop him.
红衣女子不为所动，反而祭出一柄魔剑，遥遥指向前方。伴随着上空轰鸣作响的雷云，气氛一时间剑拔弩张起来。¤The woman in red remained unmoved, instead summoning a demon sword which she pointed ahead with. As thunder rumbled in the skies above, a tense atmosphere settled over the scene.
伴随着雷鸣落下的除了天火，还有几道红芒一闪而过，目标正是白帝。¤Alongside the thunderous roar, apart from the flame of heaven descending, there were also several flashes of red light, aimed directly at the White Emperor.
随着碰撞之下的余烟散去，一行三人的身影出现在远处，其中一位正是你曾经见过的血河老祖。¤As the residual smoke from the collision dissipated, three figures appeared in the distance. One of them was none other than Patriarch Blood River, whom you had previously encountered.
修炼至化神期后承蒙各州正派道友抬爱，称我为九州第一剑仙。¤After cultivating to the Void Transformation stage, I have been highly esteemed by fellow daoists of the righteous factions in various states and have been hailed as the number one sword immortal in the Nine Continents.
{size=31}让我看看这道是...红色，是风火劫吧，怎么有些不太对。{/size}¤{size=31}Let me see this one... It's red, could it be the wind and fire tribulation? Something seems off though.{/size}
多谢诸位道友前来观礼。¤Thank you fellow daoists for coming to witness this ceremony.
血剑宫...？¤Blood Sword Palace....？
我知道你们想要的是我手中的这柄绝仙剑，不妨我们来做个交易。¤I know that what you want is the Immortal Severing Sword in my hand. Perhaps we can make a trade.
{size=31}嗯，这第一劫果然是那最简单的天雷劫。{/size}¤{size=31}Hmm, this first tribulation is indeed the easiest Heavenly Thunder Tribulation.{/size}
三对{$num}，你们不占优。若还敢轻举妄动，就别怪我们以多欺少了。¤Three pairs of {$num}, you do not have the advantage. If you dare to make any reckless moves, do not blame us for taking advantage of the outnumbered.
这天劫才刚刚开始，不妨就先看看那凌轩到底有几分本事吧。¤The heavenly tribulation has just begun, let's see how much ability Ling Xuan has first.
但这些魔门却不同，你全然摸不清他们的底线。眼下的风平浪静或许只是一时的，他们只是在等待一个更适合出手的时机...¤But these demonic sects are different, and you cannot grasp their bottom line. The current calm may only be temporary, and they are just waiting for a more suitable opportunity to strike...
神兽麒麟...这凌轩倒是好大的面子。¤The divine beast qilin... Lin Xuan really has a great face.
混元子说罢，明山散人微微点了点头，表示赞同。¤After Primordial Child finished speaking, Ming Mountain Scatterer nodded slightly to show agreement.
那红衣女子淡淡呵斥了一句，血河便不再说话，只是默默后退了一步，将怨毒的目光投向沐浴在闪耀雷光中的那道身影。¤The woman in red lightly reprimanded with a sentence, and the bloody river no longer spoke, only silently retreated a step, casting a resentful gaze towards the figure bathing in the shimmering thunder light.
哼，这凌轩吹嘘自己是什么第一剑仙，我看也不过是鼠辈而已。若非学了我们血剑宫的功法，哪有他现在的威风。¤Hmph, this Ling Xuan boasting about being the number one sword immortal, is nothing more than a rat in my eyes. If he didn't learn our Blood Sword Palace's techniques, where would he get his current dominance.
再看那劫云范围正中矗立着的白帝，只见衣袍舞动，飞剑轻扬，也不知那灵气护罩之下是如何一番神态。¤Looking back at the White Emperor standing in the center of the disaster clouds, one could see his clothes fluttering as his flying sword danced lightly. It was unclear what kind of divinity he displayed under the shielding of his spiritual energy.
只听“轰”的一阵巨响，火球与那红芒一接触，便释放出极为恐怖的能量。漫天火光之下，隐约浮现出一只巨兽的身影。¤With a loud bang, the flame of heaven came into contact with the red light, unleashing a terrifying amount of energy. Amidst the sea of flames, a giant beast's silhouette faintly emerged.
{size=31}打便打吧，刚好和你们这些魔道算算当年的老账！{/size}¤{size=31}Let's fight, I just happen to settle the old scores with you demons!{/size}
你将身后背负的铁剑取下，郑重地交给白帝。白帝接过铁剑，脚踏一股剑气腾飞而起，立于半空之中。混元子，火麒麟等则是放下手中物事，围将上来。¤You take the iron sword from your back and hand it over to the White Emperor with solemnity. The White Emperor receives the iron sword and steps on a surge of sword qi, flying up to stand in mid-air. The Primordial Child, Fire Qilin, and others put down what they were holding and gather around.
其他几位化神修士默契地退出乌云的范围，你也有条不紊的跟了上去。¤The other deity transformation cultivators silently withdrew from the scope of the dark clouds, and you calmly followed them.
闭嘴，还轮不到你在这里说话。¤Shut up, it's not your turn to speak here.
血亢剑仙面色一沉，看着从四面合围而来的宁州化神强者们一言不发，不知在想些什么。¤The expression on the face of the High Blood Sword Immortal darkened as he watched the Deity Transformation experts from Ningzhou encircle him from all sides without saying a word, it was unclear what he was thinking.
血河可能是在场魔门中最弱的化神，但他毕竟也是一个化神修士。本就不占上风的正道正道修士们渐渐开始支撑不住。¤Blood River may be the weakest deity transformation among the demon sect present, but he is still a cultivator who has achieved deity transformation. The righteous sect cultivators, who were already at a disadvantage, gradually began to struggle to hold on.
白帝说得是掷地有声，其上方的晴空却无声地被乌云遮蔽了去。¤The White Emperor spoke with thunderous authority, yet the clear sky above was silently obscured by dark clouds.
天雷劫？¤The heavenly tribulation?
这...这难道是心魔劫？¤Is...Is this the Heart Demon Tribulation?
他身旁的火麒麟却是撇了撇嘴，似乎不是很服气的样子。¤The fire Qilin next to him, however, twitched its mouth, seeming to be somewhat dissatisfied.
{size=31}很久未能见到凌老头一展身手了，若是那些魔门不来捣乱，就这么看着他渡劫倒也不错哈哈哈。{/size}¤{size=31}It's been a while since we've seen Ling Lao Tou demonstrate his skills. If those demonic sects don't come to cause trouble, it would be nice to watch him go through his tribulation. Hahaha.{/size}
嘁...没想到那白帝竟然会引来心魔劫，我看他是没什么余力再管别人了。¤Tsk... I didn't expect the White Emperor to actually bring upon himself the Heart Demon Tribulation. I don't think he has any spare energy to deal with others now.
眼看劫云就要凝聚完成，只见白帝又是凝聚出数道巨大剑芒，迎着正要落下的雷劫向劫云挥去。一时间，天地灵气急切的流转起来。¤As the disaster clouds were about to condense, White Emperor condensed several huge sword rays and swung them towards the disaster clouds, meeting the Thunder Kalpa that was about to fall. In an instant, the spiritual energy of heaven and earth circulated urgently.
天魔道的二位尊者看的也够久了，莫非真的以为我们血剑宫会自大到与他们拼个两败俱伤，让你们得利？¤The two heavenly demon cult disciples have been watching us for long enough. Do they really think that our Blood Sword Palace will be arrogant enough to fight them and both suffer losses just to benefit them?
若是二位能助我血剑宫夺下白帝手中的这柄戮仙剑，那我便用绝仙剑与二位交换，如何？¤If the two of you can help me take the Immortal Executing Sword from the White Emperor, I will exchange it with the Immortal Severing Sword. How about it?
第二道要来了。¤The second wave is coming.
随着碰撞之下的余烟散去，一行三人的身影出现在远处.¤As the remnant smoke from the collision dissipated, the figures of three people appeared in the distance.
明山的语气中透露着惊讶，你看向混元子，发现他的表情也严肃了起来。¤Mingshan's tone was filled with surprise. You looked at the Primordial Child and noticed his expression had also become grave.
哈哈哈，金虹的闷瓶子脾气还挺大，本座欣赏你。¤Hahaha, Golden Rainbow's bottled up temper is quite significant, this humble one appreciates you.
哼，大言不惭...¤Hmph, boastful words without shame
这吞吐着雷光的乌云像是有了意识一般，在你们退后时飞速扩张，扩张的方向之精准，速度之快，像是要把你们留在劫云中似的。¤The thundering dark clouds seem to have consciousness, rapidly expanding in the direction of your retreat with precision and speed as if wanting to trap you within the calamitous cloud.
未停歇太久，劫云又是雷芒闪耀，隐有蓄力待发之势。¤Without much respite, the calamity clouds once again flickered with lightning bolts, indicating a possible power surge waiting to be unleashed.
此言一出，连生性洒脱的明山散人也大为恼火。但还未等他说完，此前一言不发的白鹿真人竟第一个冲了出去。¤As soon as these words were spoken, even the free-spirited Ming Mountain Scatterer became greatly annoyed. But before he could finish speaking, the previously silent Paragon White Deer unexpectedly rushed out first.
至于你，虽然飞行速度不及几位化神前辈，但劫云明显对你没啥兴致，只是平稳且慢速地往这边蔓延着。¤As for you, although your flying speed is not as fast as some of the senior deity transformations, the heavenly tribulation clouds don't seem to be interested in you, just spreading slowly and steadily towards this direction.
正在你与白帝交谈的短短几瞬之间，天空瞬间暗了下来，方圆数百里的海域都被这漆黑的劫云所笼罩。¤During the brief moment when you were chatting with the White Emperor, the sky suddenly darkened and a pitch-black thundercloud covered the sea within a radius of hundreds of miles.
{size=31}哈哈哈，不愧是凌老儿，竟然选择用这种方式来应对，了不起！{/size}¤{size=31}Hahaha, worthy of Elder Ling, choosing to handle it in this way, impressive!{/size}
被剑气劈散的天雷劫威能大减，零星的几下也被白帝的灵气护罩轻松挡了下来。你看到白帝依然淡然自若的神态，也不由得松了口气。¤The power of the heavenly tribulation, which was scattered by sword qi, greatly decreased, and the sporadic strikes were easily blocked by the spirit shield of the White Emperor. Seeing that the White Emperor remained calm and composed, you couldn't help but let out a sigh of relief.
{size=31}红莲尊者，修煞尊者...你们两个老家伙还真是阴魂不散啊。{/size}¤{size=31}Venerable Red Lotus and Venerable Baleful... you two old ghosts really don't give up, huh?{/size}
天空中，刚刚消散的劫云又开始旋转着聚拢起来，一道道紫色的电蛇在劫云中蜿蜒曲折。¤In the sky, the dissipating calamity cloud began to rotate and gather again, with purple lightning snakes winding and twisting within the calamity cloud.
{size=31}哟，这不血亢老狗嘛，当年追着凌老头来中州却像败家之犬一样离开，那个狼狈的样子啊，哪怕是几百年过去我也还没忘呢，哈哈哈哈！{/size}¤{size=31}Oh, isn't this the old dog Blood Frenzy? Back then, you chased after Old Man Ling to the Central Plains but left like a beaten dog. I still haven't forgotten that pitiful and embarrassed look even after hundreds of years. Hahaha!{/size}
凌轩是剑修，自然要用剑修的方式渡劫。靠着灵气护罩硬抗，本就不是他该做的事。¤Ling Xuan is a swordsman, naturally he needs to undergo tribulation in the way of a swordsman. Relying on a shield of spiritual energy to resist it forcibly is not something he should do.
居于其下的白帝则是没什么变化，倒是那层灵气护罩不知怎的消失在了雷劫之下，让他的身影愈发的清晰了起来。¤The White Emperor who resides there remains unchanged, but the layer of spiritual energy shield somehow disappeared under the Thunder Kalpa, making his figure even more distinct.
我拖住那只麒麟，玄道宗的老头交给你。剩下的那几个，不足为虑。¤I will hold off the unicorn, and you can take care of the elder from Xuan Dao Sect. The remaining few are not worth worrying about.
古籍中有所记录的雷劫便有十余种，需要应对的方式各不相同，谁也不知道自己在飞升时要面对的是什么雷劫。¤In the ancient books, there are records of more than ten types of thunder kalpas, and each one requires a different approach to confront. Nobody knows what thunder kalpa they will face when they ascend. I don't know...
没想到凡人吃的那些海鲜也能修练成凶兽，听说有位化神期的海上霸主竟是章鱼呢！¤I never thought that the seafood eaten by mortals could also be cultivated into ferocious beasts. It is said that there is a sea overlord who has achieved void transformation and is actually an octopus!
用神识刺激他一下试试？¤Use your soul sense to stimulate him and see what happens?
倪兄快醒醒！我刚用藏宝图找到天道源丹了！还有好多其他的珍稀丹药！¤Brother Ni, wake up quickly! I just found the True Dao Pill using the Treasure Map! There are also many other rare elixirs!
我刚才好像受到了神识攻击，然后就...之后我也不知道了。¤I seem to have been struck by a soul sense attack just now, and then... I don't know what happened afterwards.
珍惜丹药！天道源丹！在哪？¤Cherish the pills! True Dao Pill! Where are they?
嗯，倪兄所言极是。¤Indeed, what Brother Ni said is extremely true.
倪旭欣刚喊完，像是明白了什么似的讪笑了两下，便没再说什么。¤After Ni Xuxin shouted, he chuckled as if he understood something, then didn't say anything else.
唔，倪兄，我刚才是...被古树打晕了？¤Hmm, Brother Ni, did I just get knocked out by the ancient tree?
之前的神识攻击虽然挺棘手，倒还没到危险的地步，我们小心些继续前进吧。¤The previous soul sense strikes were quite tricky, but we're not in danger yet. Let's proceed with caution.
倪兄快醒醒！奇怪，刚才那下应该打醒他了才对，难道用力过猛了？¤Brother Ni, wake up! Strange, the hit just now should have awakened him, did I use too much force?
哎，没事，只是接下来就要更加小心些，要是再来两次我可承受不起。¤Ah, it's okay, I just have to be more careful next time. If it happens again, I won't be able to bear it.
那，难道是陷入幻觉了么。真是对不住倪兄了。¤So, have I fallen into an illusion? I'm really sorry for troubling Brother Ni.
还...还以为要死在你手上呢，{FirstName}{xiongdi}你怎么突然对我出手？¤I thought I was going to die in your hands, {FirstName} brothers. Why did you suddenly attack me?
醒醒，倪兄醒醒。¤Wake up, Brother Ni, wake up.
（难道是控制或制造幻觉一类的神通？）¤(Could it be a divine skill such as controlling or creating illusions?)
倪兄？你怎会在此？¤Brother Ni? How did you come here?
倪兄你不是先走了么？我只是在攻击古树的根须而已啊？¤Brother Ni, didn't you leave first? I was just striking the root whiskers of the ancient tree.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}可能是陷入了幻觉吧，所以接下来的探索我们可得小心些了。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi} might be experiencing an illusion, so we must be cautious during our exploration.
你硬抗根须一记攻击，正待抓住时机斩断根须，却是蓦地神魂一震。赶紧调整好状态再准备以神通攻击时，身前的目标竟变成了倪少。¤You resisted a strike from root whiskers, and were about to seize the opportunity to cut them off. Suddenly, your soul trembled. After adjusting your state, you prepared to use your divine skill to strike, only to find that your target had suddenly become Ni Shao.
倪兄刚才是怎么了？¤What happened to Brother Ni just now?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}快醒醒。¤{FirstName} brother, wake up quickly.
嗯？嗯，对对对，还好我及时赶到了。¤Hmm? Ah, yes, yes, luckily I arrived in time.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}一直在与我战斗。自我们靠近古树到现在，它都没有动过。¤{FirstName} brother has been battling with me. Since we approached the ancient tree, it hasn't moved.
多谢倪兄，但我恍惚记得那古树根须好像还会天剑...¤Thank you, Brother Ni, but if I recall correctly, the ancient tree root whiskers also possess the Heavenly Sword...
刚刚比试的结果都已经出来了，那么第四轮比试，就由星河的{FirstName}{LastName}对阵星河剑派的白露。¤The results of the previous rounds of the competition are already out. For the fourth round, {FirstName}{LastName} from Celestial River will face off against Bai Lu from Celestial River Sword Sect.
那些莫非都是...天道树的根须？¤Are those possibly... the root whiskers of the Heavenly Tree?
你小心翼翼的向漩涡深处探去，不知不觉间已经触达了海底。¤You cautiously probe towards the depths of the whirlpool, unknowingly already reaching the seabed.
这些根须有的已经完全裸露在外，还有些则大半掩埋于地下，有的细如藤蔓，有的又有四五人难以合抱的粗细，互相纠缠在一起，宛若一张大网。¤These root whiskers were already completely exposed, while others were partly buried underground. Some were as thin as vines, while others were as thick as four or five people holding together, entangled with each other like a great net.
上次与倪旭欣来到此地时，还未曾留意。但此时你细心观察之下，却发现那些蜿蜒曲折的海底沟壑，实则都来自同一个方向。¤Last time you came here with Ni Xuxin, you didn't pay much attention. But now, as you observe carefully, you realize that the winding and twisting underwater canyons actually all come from the same direction.
周围的雾气渐渐散了...¤The mist around gradually dissipated...
先前我师兄来到千流岛参与此擂台，虽是得到了修炼功法的机会，但不知为何性格也变得强硬了许多......¤Previously, my senior brother came to Myriad Rivers Island to participate in this arena. Although he had the opportunity to cultivate techniques, his personality inexplicably became tougher...
路旁有一块奇石会吸收你的神念，在释放而出，受此启发，你对神之道有所感悟。¤There is a strange stone by the side of the road that can absorb your divine sense before releasing it. Inspired by this, you may have a feeling of enlightenment towards the sense dao.
路旁熔火生生不息，你对火之道有所感悟。¤By the roadside, the fiery flames burned restlessly, and you gained some enlightenment on the fire dao.
路旁地形甚是奇特，灵气流动不断轮转，生生不息，受此启发，你对气之道有所感悟。¤The terrain by the road was extremely unique, with spiritual energy constantly circulating, endlessly restless. Inspired by this, you had a feeling of enlightenment towards the way of qi.
路旁有一道裂隙，宛若一道剑痕，你对剑之道有所感悟。¤There was a crack on the road that resembled a sword scar. You have a feeling of enlightenment towards the way of the sword.
路旁藤蔓枯萎生长，轮回交替不止，你对木之道有所感悟。¤As you walk down the path, you notice the withered vines and the cycles of life and death. You have a feeling of understanding towards the wood dao.
路旁水流奔腾不息，你对水之道有所感悟。¤As the water flowed tirelessly along the road, you felt enlightened about the way of water dao.
路旁金石甚是锐利，你对金之道有所感悟。¤Beside the road, the golden stones were extremely sharp. I have a feeling of the Metal Dao.
路旁山石散去化沙，你对土之道有所感悟。¤On the roadside, the scattered rocks and sand transformed. I have a feeling of enlightenment towards the earth dao.
不知宗门内是否也遭到魔门迫害...我们要抓紧时间回到宗门调查此事。¤I don't know if our sect has also suffered persecution from the demonic sect... We need to hurry back to the sect and investigate this matter.
在下在此谢过道友，实不相瞒，这储物袋内本也没什么值钱的东西。¤I would like to express my gratitude to my fellow daoist for this opportunity. To be honest, there is nothing of value in this storage pouch.
李青麟当着你的面打开了储物袋，里面整齐地摆放着许多竹山宗道袍。¤Li Qinglin opened a storage pouch in front of you, neatly arranged inside were many Bamboo Mountain Sect Dao robes.
此行竹山宗伤亡惨重，我还要清点损失，望道友见谅。¤This journey to Bamboo Mountain Sect has caused significant casualties. I still need to assess the extent of our losses. I hope my fellow daoists can forgive me.
就在那空间裂隙中，我拾起储物袋时见你已经离去，便擅自替你保存了一阵。¤In that space rift, I picked up a storage pouch and saw that you had already left. So, I took the liberty of holding onto it for a while for you.
此物确是我不慎遗落于古迹中的，不知道友是何时发现的？¤This item was indeed accidentally left behind by me in ancient ruins. Fellow daoist, I don't know when you discovered it?
这还是当年我未结丹时留作纪念的储物袋，真是多谢道友帮忙找回，这枚丹药便当做谢礼聊表心意吧，哈哈。¤This is the storage pouch I kept as a memento from before I formed my core. Thank you, fellow daoist, for helping me retrieve it. Please accept this pill as a token of my appreciation. Ha ha.
你将先前在战场外围拾到的储物袋出示给李青麟，他一向儒雅随和的面孔流露出几分尴尬的神色。¤You present the storage pouch you found earlier on the outskirts of the battle to Li Qinglin. His typically refined and amiable expression briefly shifts to a somewhat awkward one.
这就是得罪我们禾山道的下场！¤This is the end for anyone who offends our Mt. Harvest Sect!
这人还有点本事，哼，下次做足了准备再来收拾他！¤This person still has some skills, hmph, next time I will come prepared to deal with him!
无主之物能者得之，{xiaozi}东西拿出来。¤Any capable person can obtain unowned items, bring it out {xiaozi}.
不自量力。¤Overestimating one's abilities.
原来是{FirstName}{gongzi}，那此物就让与你，我就先告辞了。¤So it was {FirstName} Gongzi, then I shall leave this item to you. I will take my leave.
恭喜前辈得此机缘，晚辈告退。¤Congratulations, senior, on obtaining this opportunity. I will take my leave now.
这{$Var}倒也别有洞天，没想到深处竟还有一个看似废弃的洞府。¤This {$Var} is quite remarkable, as there is unexpectedly an abandoned cave grotto hidden deep within.
原来早有前辈发现此地。¤It turns out that senior had already discovered this place.
哼，算你{xiaozi}识相。¤Hmph, you little brat, consider yourself wise.
这是后面响起人声，你显然不是发现此地的唯一一人。¤There were voices coming from behind, and you obviously weren't the only one who discovered this place.
原来是{FirstName}前辈。¤So it was Senior {FirstName}.
你来到了一处看似藏经阁的房间。¤You have arrived in a room that appears to be a hidden manual pavilion.
正当你考虑是否强行破阵闯入时，一人从建筑中走出，与你迎面撞上。见到你这陌生人他也是一愣，尔后便是驱动神通向你攻来。¤Just as you were considering whether to forcefully break formation and enter, one person walked out of the building and collided with you head-on. Seeing you, this stranger was also stunned, and then he activated his divine skill and attacked you.
正当你找到阵法薄弱处准备潜入时，一人从建筑中走出，与你迎面撞上。见到你这陌生人他也是一愣，然后便是驱动神通向你攻来。¤Just as you were preparing to sneak in after finding a weak spot in the array, someone walked out of the building and collided with you head-on. Seeing you, this stranger was also taken aback, before driving their divine skill and attacking you.
想不到这杀手藏匿废弃洞府之中，还在近些日子里提升至金丹后期修为。好在你反应及时才没让其偷袭得逞，反倒是倚仗自身强大的实力将其击毙。¤Unexpectedly, the assassin was hiding in an abandoned abode and had advanced to the late golden core stage in cultivation in recent days. It was fortunate that you reacted in time and prevented the sneak strike, and instead relied on your own strong power to kill the assassin.
你快速击晕他后，顺手掏走储物袋。¤After quickly knocking him out, you casually picked up the storage pouch.
在刚才的战斗中，近旁的阵法都已是被击破。其中一幢建筑飘散出浓烈的酒香，料想便是公孙府酒窖了。¤During the recent combat, nearby arrays have already been broken. One of the buildings emanated a strong smell of wine, presumably the Gongsun House wine cellar.
此处果然是公孙家酒窖，你随手挑了两坛品质上佳的盈手露藏入储物袋中，便是趁无人发现时扬长而去。¤This is indeed the Gongsun family wine cellar. You casually picked two barrels of excellent quality Ying Hand Dew and stored them in a storage pouch, then left quickly while no one noticed.
潜入公孙府后，由于阵道领悟不足，你很快便是陷入幻阵之中。乱逛一会后，来到一幢较大的建筑旁。¤After infiltrating the Gongsun house, due to insufficient enlightenment in array dao, you quickly found yourself trapped in an illusionary formation. After wandering aimlessly for a while, you arrived at a large building.
（这应该就是公孙府的叛徒了。赶紧回去找公孙季吧。）¤(This should be the traitor from Gongsun House. Quickly go back and find Gongsun Ji.)
随意挑了两坛品质上佳的盈手露后，你趁着没人赶到现场，迅速离去了。¤After casually picking two barrels of high-quality Ying Hand Dew, you quickly left the scene before anyone could arrive.
但袋中只有一本从未听说过的功法。¤However, there was only one technique in the bag that had never been heard of before.
只见原本脸上挂满笑容的林沐心逐渐严肃起来，待她再次开口时，已是满脸愤怒。¤We see Lin Muxin, who had a smiling face, gradually becoming serious. When she speaks again, her face is now filled with anger.
好，有你助力肯定会轻松上不少。¤Good, with your help, it will definitely be much easier.
算你识相，嘿嘿。¤You know when to be sensible, hehe.
倒是我晋升元婴期后常常为家族事务所缚，与宫主的联系淡了不少。¤After I advanced to the nascent soul stage, I was often tied up with family affairs, and my connection with the palace lord weakened quite a bit.
上次事件后，宫主倒是提过想收我为弟子，也不知是认真的还是开玩笑。¤After the last incident, the palace lord mentioned wanting to accept me as a disciple, but I don't know if he was serious or just joking.
一时间林府长老堂竟成了你们俩个高阶修士挠痒打闹的场所，原本严肃的场合如今满溢着的欢乐气息更是令人咂舌。¤For a moment, the Lin House elder hall became a place for the two of you high-level cultivators to play around and tickle each other, turning what was once a serious occasion into a surprising atmosphere of joyousness.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，宫主刚神识传音说发现冲虚散人勾结魔教，且后者正在逃窜，要我循她留下的神识印记前去围剿。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}, the palace lord just used his soul sense to transmit a message that he discovered Hermit Chong Xu has colluded with the demonic cult and is currently on the run. He wants me to follow the soul imprint left by her and help him besiege her.
还好你作为修士听力非常人可比，在这种情况下依旧能听出她说的是星宫宫主陨落了。¤Fortunately, as a cultivator, your hearing is superior to that of ordinary people, and you could still hear her say that the Star Palace Master had fallen in this situation.
听到你的话语声，林沐心才慢慢地抬起头来，却见她脸色惨白，眼角依稀挂着泪痕，更是紧咬这下唇，令原本晶莹的芳唇也是透出丝丝凄红。¤Upon hearing your words, Lin Muxin slowly lifted her head, only to see her face pale and tears lingering in the corners of her eyes. She tightly bit her lower lip, causing even her once glossy lips to appear a faint shade of red.
你们平时都在天星城，不是应该经常会见到么。¤You guys are usually in Starsky City, so shouldn't you see each other often?
趁林沐心开口说话时，你也抓住时机奋起反抗。¤While Lin Muxin was speaking, you seized the opportunity to rise up and resist.
不好说，但...要见到她们比见到宫主还要难。¤It's hard to say, but... it's even harder to see them than to see the palace lord.
好了，好了，我认输，沐心仙子赢了。¤Okay, okay, I surrender. Mu Xin Xian Zi has won.
据说平时他除了出门游历就是修炼，也没再想找林家麻烦。¤It is said that he usually either travels or cultivates, and has not thought of causing trouble for the Lin family.
当时我以为这事就这么过去了，结果过了约摸三十年，冲虚散人又主动找宫主承担元婴长老一职，之后也是对此尽职尽责，乃至更胜其师父一筹。¤At the time, I thought the matter had passed, but after about thirty years, Hermit Chong Xu took the initiative to assume the role of Elder of the Nascent Soul for the Palace Master. From then on, he faithfully fulfilled his duties, surpassing even his own master.
宫主...{size=28}她...{/size}{size=26}陨落...{/size}{size=24}了...{/size}¤Patriarch... {size=28}She...{/size}{size=26}has fallen...{/size}{size=24}away...{/size}
嗯，那我便先动身了。¤Okay, then I will set off first.
嗯？宫主的亲传弟子？姓星的话可能是宫主家族中人。但说到弟子...无惑真人以前一直希望宫主收弟子来着，但未能如愿。¤Hmm? The palace lord's personal disciple? If their surname is Xing, then they might be a member of the palace lord's family. But when it comes to disciples... The Paragon Confusionless had always hoped that the palace lord would take in disciples, but his wish has yet to be fulfilled.
那...{$Lin}找过星铃儿么，她作为宫主弟子应该知道更多信息才对。¤Did {$Lin} try to find Star Bell? As a disciple of the palace master, she should know more information.
一句话还未说完，林沐心竟已是泣不成声，又将头埋在自己的臂弯里。¤Before she could finish her sentence, Lin Muxin was already crying uncontrollably with her head buried in her arms.
有谈论过，但没什么头绪。¤There has been discussion, but there is no clue.
会不会是因为{$Lin}去星宫太少，所以刚好都错过了。¤Could it be because {$Lin} has visited the Star Palace too rarely, so they happen to have missed each other?
上次留下的神识创伤还没好利落吧，怎么就开始忙碌了？¤Your divine soul sense from last time's injury hasn't fully recovered yet, why are you already starting to be busy?
所以后来若是没什么大事，我很少去星宫，见到他的次数也就很少了。¤So later if there wasn't anything major, I rarely went to the Star Palace, and my encounters with him were also few and far between.
那宫主的道侣呢，会不会对冲虚散人的事也有了解?¤What about the palace lord's Taoist companion? Do they have any knowledge about the hermit Chong Xu's matter?
好啦好啦，反正冲虚散人没找我们麻烦，不用管他。¤Alright, alright. Since Hermit Chong Xu didn't cause us any trouble, we don't need to worry about him.
是啊，和逍遥剑仙并称移动人形天灾的沐心仙子，可不是享有盛...哈，哈哈，你怎么还动手的，哈哈哈...¤Yes, Mu Xin Fairy, who is also known as the moving humanoid calamity along with Sword Immortal Xiaoyao, is not to be trifled with. Ha, why are you still attacking? Hahaha...
这转变是挺奇怪的，他可不像是能放下的类型。¤This change is quite strange. He doesn't seem like the type to let go.
任你再询问什么，林沐心也只是低头不语，你也只得安慰她一番后起身离去。¤No matter what you ask, Lin Muxin can only bow her head in silence. You can only comfort her before getting up and leaving.
没办法，谁让我是林家最勤劳的小蜜蜂呢。¤Can't help it, who made me the hardest worker in the Lin family.
冲虚散人...也许是他吧。从上次事件后我都没怎么见过他。¤The hermit Chong Xu... maybe it's him. I haven't really seen him since the last incident.
眼见林沐心对这小小的胜利心满意足，你将话题转到之前的探索上。¤Seeing Lin Muxin satisfied with this small victory, you redirected the conversation back to our previous exploration.
唔，她好像是一直在外游历，都没怎么在星宫见过，我每次去都只见到了宫主。¤Ah, she seems to have been traveling outside all this time and hasn't been seen much in the Star Palace. Every time I go there, I only see the palace lord.
哟，忙着呢？¤Hey, are you busy?
应该不会，我还在金丹期时，因为父亲日常闭关的缘故，所以总是去打扰宫主，她也会很亲切地指点我的修炼。¤I don't think so. When I was in the Golden Core stage, because of my father's regular cultivation, I would always bother the Palace Master, and she would kindly guide me in my cultivation.
这一系列转变还真是奇怪，你和通羽大长老之后没谈论过此事么？¤These changes are really strange. Did you not discuss this with the Grand Elder Tongyu?
哼，我就动手，让你瞎说，让你再瞎说！¤Hmph, I'll take action and make you spout nonsense, make you spout more nonsense!
只是刚好想起而已。¤Just happened to remember, that's all.
唔，之前我在星宫战胜冲虚后，看到宫主身旁跟着一个年轻女修，好像叫星铃儿，感觉是宫主的亲传弟子，{$Lin}没有询问过她么？¤Uh, after I defeated Chong Xu in the Star Palace, I saw a young female cultivator following the Palace Master. She seemed to be named Star Bell and I had a feeling she was the Palace Master's direct disciple. Did {$Lin} not ask her anything?
我后来想了想，上次从那元婴妖兽洞窟出来见到的修士，好像是冲虚散人。¤After considering it for a while, I realized that the cultivator I saw coming out of that spirit beast cave with a nascent soul last time was probably Hermit Chong Xu.
见林沐心御空而去，你选择回客房修炼。¤Seeing Lin Muxin soar into the sky, you choose to return to the guest room and cultivate.
本来应该是这样，而且我后来还经常去星宫。但这冲虚散人被他师父关了近百年禁闭后，一转之前的性格，变得...嗯，变得非常的低调。¤Originally it was like this, and I also often went to the Star Palace. But after the hermit Chong Xu was imprisoned by his master for nearly a hundred years, his previous personality changed... um, became very low-key.
你才是老妖怪，我可是在宁州修仙界享有盛名的沐心仙子。¤You're the old monster, but I'm Mu Xin, the renowned fairy in the world of cultivators in Ningzhou.
倒是无惑真人陨落后出现过一个小插曲。¤After the fall of Paragon Confusionless, there was a little episode that occurred.
哟，原来{$Lin}是只老妖怪级别的蜜蜂啊，可让我长见识了。¤Oh, so {$Lin} turns out to be a bee at the level of an old monster. It really broadens my horizons.
她们...¤They...
{$Lin},还顺利么？¤{$Lin}, is everything going smoothly?
这样么...算了，只要冲虚散人不跳出来找事，也没必要管他。¤Well then... it's fine, as long as Hermit Chong Xu doesn't come looking for trouble, there's no need to bother with him.
约摸三天过去，你感应到林沐心的神识波动出现在林府，这才浅吐一口浊气，将四肢百骸中按功法路线运行的浓稠灵气液收归丹田。而后则是悠闲地走向大殿。¤After approximately three days, you sense the soul sense of Lin Muxin fluctuating within the Lin House. With a faint exhale, you gather the thick spiritual energy flowing within your body in accordance with your technique. Afterwards, you leisurely walk towards the main hall.
一迈入长老堂就看见疲惫不堪的林沐心正趴在桌上，甚至不是经历一场持续多天的战斗所能带来的疲惫。¤As soon as I stepped into Elder Hall, I saw Lin Muxin exhausted and slumped over the table. It wasn't even the exhaustion that comes from enduring days of combat.
说起来，上次从那元婴妖兽洞窟出来时，我见到的那个修士好像冲虚散人。¤Speaking of which, last time I came out of that nascent soul spirit beast cave, the cultivator I saw seemed to be Hermit Chong Xu.
当时是无惑真人寿尽后不久，宫主见冲虚散人诚心思过百年，想让他接受无惑真人的权责，但不知为何两人起了矛盾。¤At that time, it was shortly after the paragon confusionless had passed away. The palace master saw that the hermit chong xu had sincerely reflected on his thoughts for a hundred years, and wanted him to accept the responsibilities of the paragon confusionless, but for some reason, the two had a conflict.
你这是...¤What are you doing...
起初通羽大长老还有些不信他改邪归正了，但这些年一直相安无事，由不得我们不信，所以后来也就没怎么关注冲虚的事了。¤At first, Grand Elder Tongyu was a little skeptical about his change from evil to good, but in these years, they have lived peacefully without any trouble. We can't help but believe it, so we haven't really paid much attention to the matter of Chongxu.
发生了什么？¤What happened?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}果然好身手。¤{FirstName} brother is indeed skilled.
可惜可惜，我还没有施展我的独门剑招，否则早就将此魔剑拿下了！¤What a pity, what a pity. I haven't had the chance to use my unique sword techniques, otherwise I would have already taken down this demon sword!
既然道友不是这样想的，那便多谢带来消息，你我就此别过！¤Since fellow daoist does not share the same opinion, I thank you for bringing me this news. Let us part ways here!
林沐心听到一半时已是双唇紧抿，待你复述林沐雪的决意时，更是贝齿紧咬下唇。分不出是红唇原本就如此诱人，还是因为太过用力，渗出些许血珠染红了这双唇。¤When Lin Muxin had heard half of it, her lips were already tightly pursed. When you repeated Lin Muxue's determination, she even clenched her teeth and bit her lower lip. It was unclear whether her alluring lips were naturally so tempting, or if it was because of her exertion that a few drops of blood seeped out, staining her lips red.
林姑娘，这便是全部了。¤Miss Lin, this is all.
事到如今，道友是打算继续帮我...还是...更赞同姐姐的决定呢？¤At this point, fellow daoist, are you planning on continuing to help me...or...do you agree more with my sister's decision?
你虽已是讲述完，林沐心却还是沉浸于中，久久未能自拔。¤Although you had finished speaking, Lin Muxin was still deeply immersed in it and couldn't free herself for a long time.
林姑娘打算如何引开两位长老呢？¤How does Miss Lin plan to distract the two elders?
你一时不知如何回答林沐心是好，一方面你确实偏向林沐雪的做法，另一方面又不想过于为难林沐心，只好保持沉默。¤You were unsure how to respond to Lin Muxin's question. On one hand, you did lean towards Lin Muxue's approach, but on the other hand, you didn't want to make things too difficult for Lin Muxin. You decided to stay silent.
两天后。¤Two days later.
嗯，我只需每隔一段时间暴露自己的气息，然后再次隐去气息远遁到城市另一角，引他四处奔走，想必能拖上一会。¤Uh, I just need to expose my breath every once in a while, then hide it again and flee to another corner of the city. This should make him run around and hopefully buy some time.
我们只有一次行动机会，还是先静修一番调整状态吧。刚好也可以让他们先花些时间寻找我的行踪，当他们因久寻不得而焦躁时，就是我们最好的行动机会。¤We only have one chance to act, so let's meditate first to adjust our status. It happens to also give them some time to search for my whereabouts. When they become restless due to their prolonged search, that's our best chance to act.
多谢{FirstName}道友，那大长老那边呢，有消息么？¤Thank you, fellow daoist {FirstName}. Do you have any news from the grand elder's side?
嗯，我只需过两日表现得急于出城，借此卖个破绽，定会有鱼上钩。之后再凭法宝隐去气息远遁城市另一角，引他四处奔走，想必能拖上一会。¤Well, all I need to do is act impatient to leave the city for a couple of days, create a loophole, and the fish will definitely take the bait. Then, I can use the artifact to conceal my breath and flee to another corner of the city. By leading him around, I should be able to stall him for a while.
嘿嘿，还是通羽长老疼我。那我们只要找个机会把二长老和三长老引开，然后就可以潜入他们的居所调查了。有通羽爷爷的照应，肯定不会暴露的。¤Hey hey, Elder Tongyu still pampers me. So all we need to do is find an opportunity to lure Second Elder and Third Elder away, and then we can quietly investigate their residence. With Grandpa Tongyu's support, we definitely won't be exposed.
林姑娘稍等，我这还有来自林沐雪姑娘的消息。¤Miss Lin, please wait a moment. I have a message from Miss Lin Muxue.
林家为何会经常与星宫其他派系联姻？¤Why does the Lin family frequently ally themselves with other factions in the Star Palace?
嗯，有劳{FirstName}道友了。¤Hmm, fellow daoist {FirstName}, thank you for your help.
你将林沐雪的心意全盘托出。¤You reveal all of Lin Muxue's intentions.
林姑娘，我不...¤Lin girl, I don't...
多谢{FirstName}道友，既然还有这种变故，那我们还是尽快启动计划为好，不然...¤Thank you, {FirstName}, fellow daoist. Since there is still such a situation, we should quickly activate the plan, otherwise...
应该是双修秘术的原因吧，据说是星宫双圣为防双修秘术外传而立下的规矩。但父亲说老祖并不想强迫后人修习此等秘术，所以只需放弃秘术的修炼资格，便可以在找道侣一事上随意而为。¤It should be because of the dual cultivation secret technique, which is said to be a rule established by the twin saints of the Star Palace to prevent the secret technique from being spread outside. However, my father said that our ancestor did not want to force future generations to practice such secret arts, so as long as one gives up the qualification to cultivate the secret arts, they can freely choose their partner for cultivation.
你将通羽上人的承诺转告林沐心。\t¤You conveyed Venerable Tongyu's promise to Lin Muxin.
林姑娘，我不是这个意思...但还是不要辜负你姐姐的一片苦心...¤Miss Lin, that's not what I meant... but still, don't let your sister's hard work go to waste...
随着你的诉说，林沐心此前挂在脸上的期待与焦急慢慢转变为喜悦。让你觉得眼前哪是那个为联姻担心焦虑的林府二小姐，不过是个雀跃的少女。¤As you spoke, the anticipation and anxiety that were hanging on Lin Muxin's face slowly turned into joy. It made you think that the Lin Family's Second Miss who was worried about a marriage alliance was not in front of you, but rather a cheerful young girl.
林姑娘放心。¤Miss Lin, don't worry.
也不知冲虚老鬼什么时候会与姐姐结为道侣，不如现在就开始行动吧。¤I don't know when Chung Xu, the old ghost, will become a Dao companion with my sister. Let's start taking action now.
{FirstName}道友，可有消息？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, do you have any news?
林沐心一愣，显然是没想到还有其他消息，还是来自平时很疼爱自己，很包容自己小脾气的姐姐。¤Lin Muxin was taken aback. It was obvious that she didn't expect any other news, especially from her sister who usually dotes on and tolerates her petty temper.
你只得叹了口气，将杂念剔除后，坐下修炼，静等封城解除。¤You can only sigh and eliminate distracting thoughts. Then, sit down and cultivate, patiently waiting for the lifting of the city's seal.
林姑娘是说以自身为饵，钓那位收了好处的长老出来？¤Did Miss Lin mean that she would use herself as bait to lure out the Elder who received benefits?
花了几息时间整理好情绪后，林沐心才向你点点头示意可以开始说了。¤After taking a few moments to compose her emotions, Lin Muxin nodded towards you, indicating that she was ready to start speaking.
只是循环几次后，难免引起怀疑，所以{FirstName}道友届时务必要抓住时机迅速行动。¤After a few cycles, it is inevitable to arouse suspicion. Therefore, fellow daoist {FirstName} must seize the opportunity and take swift action.
但见你不作言语，林沐心只当你是默认了她的说法。¤Seeing that you didn't speak, Lin Muxin assumed that you had agreed with her statement.
你，也觉得是我任性才...¤Do you think it's my stubbornness that...
三长老栖云真人是金丹初期修士，主管家族财务和经营天星城坊市、问道楼等。听说他不但醉心于此道，而且颇有成就。¤The elder San Chang, Immortal Taoist Quyun, is an early golden core cultivator. He manages the financial affairs of the family and oversees the operation of the Tianxing City market and the Taoist Inquisition Building. It is said that he is not only dedicated to this path but has also achieved great success.
在你的提醒下，林沐心才意识到自己的失态。¤Thanks to your reminder, Lin Muxin finally realized her improper behavior.
但不知为何此次也对联姻一事上心异常。¤But I don't know why this time I am unusually concerned about the matter of arranged marriage.
父亲为寻求突破机会，最近在闭死关。除非是...嗯，我不想向他寻求帮助。若是他强行出关走火入魔...¤My father is currently in seclusion, seeking a breakthrough opportunity. Unless it's...hmm, I don't want to ask him for help. If he forcefully breaks through and falls into demonic cultivation...
至于大哥...听父亲说是突破金丹后去其他州历练，一直未归。上次见他时，我才开始修炼呢。¤As for my older brother...according to what our father said, he broke through to golden core and went to other provinces for training, but he has not returned since. I had just started my cultivation the last time I saw him.
除此之外，林家与星宫其他派系的联姻一向也是由他负责。¤In addition, he is also responsible for the marriage alliances between the Lin family and other factions of the Star Palace.
不等你为自己辩解，林沐心撂下一句满溢不快的感谢便是翻窗而出，在你犹豫要不要追上去时，她已是不知去向。¤Without waiting for you to defend yourself, Lin Muxin spat out a dissatisfied thank you and climbed out of the window. Before you could decide whether or not to chase after her, she had already disappeared without a trace.
两位长老对联姻的态度如此坚决我也是第一次见到。¤I have never seen such a firm stance on a marriage alliance from two elders before.
那我便现在前往林府外围等候林姑娘创造机会了。¤Then I will go to the perimeter of the Lin House now and wait for Miss Lin to create an opportunity.
想到后果，林沐心面色苍白。¤Thinking about the consequences, Lin Muxin's face turned pale.
他们不是很想捉我回去么，我们只需利用一下此事正主的求利心切即可。¤They don't really want to capture me and take me back, so we just need to use the main character's eagerness for profit in this matter.
才进入客房，林沐心已是一脸期待的靠了过来。¤As soon as she entered the guest room, Lin Muxin leaned over with a look of anticipation.
二长老苗矮上人是金丹初期修士，平时负责家族弟子的修炼等事项。他不但严格，脾气还很差，林家子弟或多或少有些怕他。¤Elder Miaoai, the second elder, is a cultivator in the early golden core stage. He is responsible for overseeing the cultivation of the clan's disciples and other matters. He is strict and has a bad temper, causing many of the Lin family's young members to fear him.
哈哈哈！你此前口口声声地说着“修仙者岂能被他人安排命运”，现如今却也要插手一番我的命运么！¤Hahaha! You previously said repeatedly, 'How can cultivators let others control their fate', but now you want to intervene in my destiny as well!
差不多了，我们准备行动吧。¤It's almost time, let's prepare to take action.
那你是打算帮她看着我，不让我做所谓的傻事？¤So, are you planning to watch over me for her and prevent me from doing anything stupid?
{xiaozi}叫我炎鹤大人~¤{xiaozi}Call me the Fliery Crane Lord.~
前方一名修士，鬼鬼祟祟神色可疑，你决定...{w}{w=0.5}¤Ahead, a cultivator with a suspicious look appears. You decide...{w}{w=0.5}
我还是不要多管闲事了。¤I better not meddle in other people's affairs.
{xiaozi}，下辈子别多管闲事。¤{xiaozi}, in your next life, don't meddle in other people's affairs.
道友，就由本座来会会你。¤Fellow Daoist, let this humble one have the pleasure of meeting you.
道友，上次委托你的任务...？¤Fellow daoist, what about the quests you entrusted to me last time...?
道友若能完成这项委托，不仅能获得{$jiangli}，还能提升道友在此地的声望。¤Fellow daoist, if you can complete this task, you will not only gain {$jiangli}, but also increase your reputation in this place.
租借一次房间需要30灵石，单次使用不限时长，要租借么？{w}{w=0.5}¤Do you want to rent a room for unlimited time at the cost of 30 spirit stones per rental? {w}{w=0.5}
我对这件事情没有什么兴趣。¤I am not interested in this matter.
没钱...呵呵，那可不行。¤No money...hehe, that won't do.
那就拜托道友了。¤That will depend on fellow daoist.
我们{$miaoshu}¤We preserve and don't change {$miaoshu}.
很好，那此事就拜托道友了，还请道友务必抓紧时间。¤Very well, then I will leave this matter to you, fellow daoist. Please make sure to act quickly.
哎...那我也只有另想办法了。¤Ah...then I can only think of another way.
这里暂时没有什么需要帮助的事。¤There is currently nothing that needs help here.
桀！桀！桀！桀！¤Hehe! Hehe! Hehe! Hehe!
与其他整齐码放在书架上的典籍不同，书桌上整齐地摆放了三个玉简。¤Unlike other neatly placed books on the bookshelf, three jade scrolls were neatly placed on the desk.
走近一看，分别便是那《鹤喙针》、《飞针术》与《鹤回翔》。自不用说，你迅速将其全部浏览了一遍。¤As you approach, you can see that they are the 《crane beak needle》, 《flying needle》, and 《flying crane》 techniques. Without hesitation, you quickly scan through all of them.
“能自创出如此玄妙的神通，鹤真人真乃绝世奇才，只可惜……”¤Being able to create such a profound divine skill, He Zhenren is indeed an expert of unparalleled talent. Unfortunately...
你来到了一个满是书卷与玉简的房间。¤You have arrived in a room filled with books and jade scrolls.
将其收下后，你又四处寻找了一番，但对你来说全然都是些无用之物。¤After taking it, you searched around but found that they were all useless items to you.
好了，回去复命吧。¤Okay, go back and report your mission.
嗯，没恢复之前{$Lin}就不要乱跑了。¤Well, before you recover, don't run around {$Lin} recklessly.
还不满意嘛，那我在你传音符里留下神识印记吧，这可是我的底线了哦。¤Are you still dissatisfied? Then I'll leave a soul sense imprint on your sound talisman. This is my bottom line.
我刚在那阵法内战斗太久，神识有些受损，也得回去修养一会了。¤I just fought too long inside that array, my soul sense is somewhat damaged, I need to go back and recuperate for a while.
唔，那就奖励心儿成为我的关门弟子吧，以后心儿要叫鸾儿师姐哦。¤Mmm, then I'll reward Little Xin and make her my closed-door disciple. From now on, she should address Qi-Luan as Senior Sister.
好，我会记得的。¤Good, I'll remember.
我也说不好，嗯，只能说是有不好的预感。所以若是有需要，记得传音符联系。¤I can't say for sure, but I have a bad feeling about it. So if you need to, remember to use the sound talisman to contact me.
林沐心像是想到了什么，俏脸飞红，而后毫不犹豫地拒绝了宫主的好意。¤Lin Muxin seemed to have thought of something, her pretty face blushing, and then she firmly declined the Palace Master's offer without any hesitation.
冲着我来？为什么？¤Coming towards me? Why?
啊对了，这个丹方给你，还有些对应的药材。然后之前鸾儿给过你《神交法》，这本《内照法》也一起给你吧。¤Oh, right, I'll give you this recipe and the corresponding medicinal materials. And remember, Luan'er gave you the 《divine intercourse method》 before, so I'll also give you this 《inner light technique》.
虽说事先已被你破去一角，但你竟能在此等阵法的加持下击败冲虚散人，还真是让我惊讶，不愧让我看好你这么多年，嘻嘻。¤Although you had already broken a corner of it beforehand, I am still impressed that you were able to defeat the hermit Chong Xu under the influence of this array. You really deserve the many years of my support, hehe.
哼，还不是被冲虚散人摆了一道。那阵法应该是出自古神教，专用于克制神魂一道的修士，不但要多位元婴修士为阵基，还内合奇门八卦之形，竟能内蕴一个小的阵法空间。若不是你击杀了作为阵眼的冲虚散人，只怕是要我亲至阵法外才能发觉。¤Hmph, it looks like I fell into the trap of the hermit Chong Xu again. That formation should be from the Ancient God Sect and is specifically designed to restrain cultivators who specialize in the soul. It requires multiple Nascent Soul cultivators as the foundation and is also imbued with the principles of the Odd Gate and Eight Trigrams. It even contains a small spatial formation within it. If you hadn't killed the hermit Chong Xu, who was the formation's eye, I might have had to personally investigate it from outside the formation.
啊，对了，几大魔教最近动作不小，你在外游历时多加小心，我感觉，他们可能会冲着你来。¤Ah, by the way, the major demon sects have been quite active lately. Be careful during your travels outside, I have a feeling they might come after you.
你话音刚落，星凝的神识传音就进入脑中。随后她本人也是轻踩莲步而至。¤As soon as your words fell, Xing Ning's soul sense transmitted a message into my mind. Shortly after, she herself arrived with a light step.
我就当你夸我咯，嘿嘿。¤I'll take that as you praising me, hehe.
摊上你这么个聪慧的宫主，星宫弟子们还真是走运呢。¤With such a wise palace master like you, the star palace disciples are really lucky.
好了好了，别一副充满怨念的样子，我也不是故意要隐瞒身份的嘛。本只是用来骗无惑和丹阳子的嘻嘻，谁叫他们总是想管着我。¤Alright, alright, don't look at me with resentment. I didn't purposely hide my identity. I was just tricking Wu Huo and Yang Pill hehe. They always want to control me.
你神识既然能覆盖大半个宁州，为啥不在蕊宫仙子重伤时就前往救援？以你的遁速应该早就不过几息之间便能抵达吧？¤Why didn't you go to rescue Fairy Rui from the Palace of Rui when your soul sense can cover most of Ningzhou? With your speed, you could have arrived in just a few breaths, right?
嗯，放心吧。{FirstName}{$NickName}也别去太远的地方，每{color=#d0380a}五百年{/color}一开的{color=#d0380a}宁州古迹{/color}还是很有探索价值的。¤Hmm, don't worry. {FirstName}{$NickName}, don't go too far. The {color=#d0380a}Ning Province ancient ruin{/color}, which opens every {color=#d0380a}five hundred years{/color}, is still worth exploring.
不过你竟能在此等阵法的加持下击败冲虚散人，还真是让我惊讶，不愧让我看好你这么多年，嘻嘻。¤However, you were able to defeat Hermit Chong Xu under the enhancement of this array, which really surprised me. It's no wonder I've been keeping an eye on you for so many years, hehe.
别夸我了，如果一开始追杀冲虚的是你，他能不能逃出天星城还是另说呢。¤Don't praise me too much, if it was you who chased after Chong Xu from the beginning, whether he could escape from Starsky City or not is another story.
我该去帮鸾儿疗伤了，就不多陪你们啦。¤I should go help Luan'er heal her injuries, so I won't accompany you guys for too long.
星宫本就以双修闻名，有多个道侣也说得过去。而且，我们还是别议论她了，谁知道她还有些什么鬼点子...¤The Star Palace has always been famous for its dual cultivation, and having multiple partners is acceptable. But let's not discuss her any further, who knows what other tricks she has up her sleeve...
星铃儿指点你修炼？¤Does Star Bell point you towards cultivation?
宫主好意我心领了，还是算了吧...¤I appreciate the kindness of the palace lord, but I'd better decline...
啊，忘了告诉你，星铃儿就是宫主...我也是刚刚知道的！\n¤Ah, I forgot to tell you, Star Bell is the title for the Palace Master... I just found out myself!
不敢，别说我，偌大个宁州又有几人敢说你的坏话呢？¤I wouldn't dare. Not to mention me, how many people in this vast Ningzhou would dare to speak ill of you?
算是吧。以前没见过宫主道侣的时候，只当是笑话，没想到居然是真的。那...宫主有很多道侣的消息说不定也是...¤Consider it done. When I hadn't seen the Palace Master's dao companions before, I thought it was a joke. I didn't expect it to be true. So... the news about the Palace Master having many dao companions may also be...
宫主，那我呢？¤Master, what about me?
父亲真可怜...¤Father is really pitiful...
（我的神识不说覆盖整个宁州，但大半个还是没问题的哦，下次别让我抓到你说我坏话。）¤(My soul sense may not cover the entire Ningzhou, but it still has a wide range. Don't let me catch you talking behind my back next time.)
回到星宫后，星凝先是让你们在大殿上稍等，而后便是送蕊宫仙子回房疗伤去了。¤After returning to the Star Palace, Xing Ning asked you to wait in the main hall for a while before escorting Immortal Ruigong back to her room for healing.
噗，好好好，我把《星辰神念体》也教你吧，这可是我父亲的独门神通，宁州只此一份。¤Ha, alright then. Let me teach you the 《Star God's Mind Body》, which is my father's unique divine skill. It's only found in Ningzhou.
因为他们境界不如我咯，化神期和元婴期的差距可是天堑。而且鸾儿又很配合我，所以在她的演技和我的神识伪装相辅相成下，也就骗了他们五六百年吧嘻嘻。¤Because their cultivation levels are lower than mine, the difference between Deity Transformation and Nascent Soul stages is like a sky and a ground apart. And with Luan'er cooperating well with me, we were able to deceive them for five or six hundred years with her acting skills and my Soul Sense disguise. Hehe.
他有啥可怜的，真要我坐镇宫中处理事务，肯定还不如鸾儿。这样既承担了宫主的责任，又能让我外出游山玩水，可是双赢哦。¤What's so pitiful about him? If I had to handle affairs in the palace, I wouldn't be as good as Luan'er. This way, I can bear the responsibility of being the palace master and also go out to enjoy the mountains and water. It's a win-win situation.
唉，之前宫主叫我心儿都还没觉得什么，现在总觉得有些奇怪。¤Sigh, previously when the palace lord called me 'little xin', I didn't think anything of it, but now it seems a bit strange.
是因为宫主的道侣蕊宫仙子也是女性么？¤Is it because the Palace Master's dao companion, Immortal Ruigong, is also a female?
你说，要是你见到的宫主都是蕊宫仙子，那指点我修炼的真会是星铃儿么？¤You say, if the palace masters you meet are all Immortal Ruigongs, will they really guide me in my cultivation of the Star Bell?
没想到{$xing}还挺“大方”。¤I didn't expect {$xing} to be quite 'generous'.
不管怎么说，你都是救了我的鸾儿啦，这是你应得的。¤Anyway, you saved my Luan'er, so you deserve it.
你和他们二人相识几百年，难道认不出你么？¤You have known both of them for hundreds of years, can't they recognize you?
凝神查探，你可以看到空中有一团凝而不散的雷云，而一只鲲正在浮于其中与一只雷灵相斗。¤While focusing your senses, you can see a concentrated thundercloud in the sky, where a Kun fish is fighting against a Thunder Spirit.
远处雷鸣与兽吼交杂在一起随着阵阵剧烈的灵气波动，向四周荡开。¤In the distance, thunder and beast roars were mixed together, spreading out in waves of intense spiritual energy fluctuations.
“轰隆~”¤Boom~
一道道天雷落在庞大的躯体后化作一道道雷劲在他体内爆开。不过，在雷云中的鲲已经逐渐适应了落雷的强度，身上的伤口甚至开始缓缓愈合。¤A series of heavenly lightning struck the massive body and transformed into thunderous power that exploded within him. However, the Kun in the thundercloud gradually adapted to the strength of the falling thunder, and the wounds on its body even began to slowly heal.
之后雷灵奈何不得对方便被击散了，而那只鲲也注意到了你，目光冰冷的看着你。¤Afterwards, the Thunder Spirit was helpless and was easily dispersed by the opponent. The Kun also took notice of you, staring at you with cold eyes.
真走运，居然找到了珍贵的四品灵药。¤Wow, so lucky! I actually found a precious fourth grade spirit medicine.
多谢各位道友抬爱，在下携带的丹药已经售完，咱们下次再会。¤Thank you fellow daoists for your kind support. The medicine I brought with me is already sold out. We will meet again next time.
百里奇正与同族中人站在一起商议着什么，还是不要去打扰他了。¤Baili Qi is currently discussing something with his fellow clan members. It's best not to disturb him.
哼，若魔门来犯宁州，我定叫他有来无回！¤Hmph, if the Demon Sect dares to attack Ningzhou, I will make sure they don't return!
而另一边，刚刚就被重伤的赤目老祖也没能冲出公孙府众人布下的阵法，被留了下来。¤On the other hand, the heavily injured Venerable Scarlet Eye was unable to break through the array set up by Gongsun House and was left behind.
而另一边，刚刚就被重伤的赤目老祖没能冲出公孙府众人布下的阵法，被留了下来。¤On the other hand, the venerable Scarlet Eye, who had just been heavily injured, was unable to break through the array set up by the Gongsun house and was left behind.
这琚运琦原本就天资极高，否则光凭这秘术，可做不到风雨楼大长老的位置。¤Ju Yunqi's natural talent was extremely high, or else with just these secret arts, he wouldn't be able to attain the position of Fengyu Manor Supreme Elder.
要追么？¤Do you want to chase?
走吧，我们先回风雨楼。¤Let's go, we'll head back to Fengyu Manor.
厉害...这琚运琦的秘术还真是不可小觑。¤Impressive... This Yunqi's secret arts are truly not to be underestimated.
你没能拦下琚运琦，他化作一道紫黑色的遁光，消失不见了。¤You were unable to stop Ju Yunqi, as he transformed into a purple and black escape light, disappearing from sight.
尽管底牌尽出，琚运琦还是没能从你手下逃出。¤Despite revealing all his tricks, Ju Yunqi still couldn't escape from your grasp.
呼...这琚运琦的秘术还真是不可小觑。¤Phew...The secret arts of Ju Yunqi are really not to be underestimated.
算了，今日他接连施展秘术，寿元大损，本就活不了多久了。¤Forget it, he used secret arts repeatedly today, his lifespan has greatly decreased, he won't live much longer.
你谨慎地用神识扫过洞窟，并没有发现有人或妖兽的踪迹。你决定...？¤You carefully scanned the cave with your soul sense, but didn't find any traces of humans or spirit beasts. What will you decide to do?
你刚一走进洞窟，没想到就激活了一处防御法阵。看来这里曾是哪位修士开辟的临时洞府，里面似乎没有人，但法阵灵力犹在，仍可以运转。你决定...？¤As soon as you step into the cave, you unexpectedly activate a defensive formation. It appears to have been a temporary cave dwelling opened up by a cultivator. There seems to be no one inside, but the formation's power is still active and functioning. What will you decide to do?
此阵布置的颇为精妙，尽管花费了不少时间，但凭你对于布阵之道的粗浅认知实在难以破解此阵。¤The arrangement of this array is quite exquisite. Although it took a lot of time, it is difficult for you to break through this array with your shallow understanding of array formation.
此阵布置的颇为精妙，好在你对于御阵之道颇有研究，很快便看出了其中门道。¤The arrangement of this formation is quite exquisite. Fortunately, you have done extensive research on the way of the imperial array, so you quickly figured out its secrets.
你精准地毁掉阵眼，关闭阵法的运转，顺利进入了洞府。¤You accurately destroyed the formation eye, shut down the operation of the array, and smoothly entered the cave.
如此一来，就只有尝试用蛮力破除阵法这一种方案了。¤In this case, the only option left is to attempt to use brute force to break through the array.
但即便能够破除阵法，布阵之人想必也可以立刻知晓此事，要冒此风险么？¤But even if the array can be broken, the person who set it up must immediately know about it. Is it worth taking this risk?
你也是打算出海？我听说无尽之海上有许多陆地上见不到的奇特妖兽，这次出去一定要长长见识。¤Are you also planning on setting sail? I heard that there are many unique spirit beasts on the endless sea that can't be found on land. We must definitely broaden our horizons on this journey.
你很强，期待下一次和你切磋。¤You are very strong, looking forward to the next time we duel.
弟子恭送师尊。¤Disciple respectfully sees off Master.
哈哈哈，{FirstName}{shidi}，恭喜你夺得本次大比的第一，你这次可谓是名震宗门啊。¤Hahaha, {FirstName} {shidi}, congratulations on winning first place in this competition. Your name is now renowned throughout the sect.
哈哈哈，不错。你入我门下，本座必会悉心教导你的。\n之前墨景山所用的是《五毒噬心决》，乃是本门地阶毒法，你觉得如何。¤HAHAHA, not bad. If you join my sect, I will definitely instruct you carefully. Before this, Mo Jingshan used the 《Heart Eater Poison of the Five Poisons<u300a>, which is a poisonous technique of our earthly level within the sect. What do you think?
可惜...索性这次大比已经拿到了筑基丹，也算有所收获。¤Unfortunately, this time's big competition has already obtained the foundation pill, which can also be considered as some gain.
作为这次宗门大比的第一，你可以自行选择拜入我派任意一位长老门下。来，我现在便带你前往大殿。¤As the first place winner of the clan competition, you can choose to be placed under the tutelage of any elder from our sect. Come, I'll take you to the main hall now.
若有要事，可来后山寻我。¤If you have any important matters, you can come find me at the back mountain.
安心修炼，最好在猎魔试炼之中，为宗门争光。¤Focus on cultivation and strive for the glory of the sect by safely advancing through the demon hunting trial.
墨师兄所使的毒功，甚是霸道，对阵之时只能以灵力强行压制。¤Senior Brother Mo's poison technique is incredibly domineering; during combat, one can only forcefully suppress it with spiritual energy.
多谢，师尊。¤Thank you, Master.
倒是有点眼光，拿着吧。¤It's a bit of a vision, take it.
师尊在上，请受徒儿一拜。¤Master, please accept one bow from your disciple.
弟子谨遵教诲。¤The disciple will follow the teachings carefully.
至于为什么是小友，老夫也有一定猜想，小友若是感兴趣，不妨听老夫再啰嗦几句。¤As for why it is young friend, this humble one also has a certain guess. If the young friend is interested, why not listen to this humble one ramble a bit more.
心儿此前刚出林府，天星城便已是启动大阵封锁，老夫料想心儿也未能出城。但若是停留城中，暴露行踪也不过是时间问题。¤Little Xin had only just left Lin House when Starsky City activated its great array to seal off the area. I imagine Little Xin wouldn't have been able to leave the city. However, if she stayed in the city, it would only be a matter of time before her whereabouts were exposed.
心儿的大哥也是与其交情不浅，还是孩童之时算得上是往来密切。连带之下，雪儿与心儿也是与他熟稔起来。心儿若要找人帮忙，找他自是上上之选。¤Xiner's elder brother had a close relationship with him since childhood. As a result, Xuer and Xiner became familiar with him as well. If Xiner needed help, he would be the best choice to ask.
小友不用惊慌，心儿给你的法宝是能一定程度上遮掩小友的气息，其他长老也确是未能发现小友潜入林府，否则这一路不会这么顺畅。¤Dear young friend, do not panic. The artifact that Little Xin gave you can partially cover your breath. The other elders did not notice your infiltration into the Lin House. Otherwise, it would not have been so smooth.
再者以心儿的性子，若是被困住，自是不肯坐以待毙。如今能破此局的方法，除家主出关亲自主持大局外，便只有找个合适的理由，让老夫出手干涉了。¤Furthermore, given Xin Er's temperament, she certainly wouldn't just wait around if trapped. The only way to break this situation is for the Patriarch to personally take charge or find a suitable excuse for me to intervene.
这冲虚散人虽说是星宫大长老座下弟子，但已是停留在金丹后期数十年无半点进步，细细算来也当是寿元无多。心儿又是林家这一代中资质最好的一位，假以时日，有望同广微老祖一般化神飞升。¤Although he is a disciple under the Star Palace's Grand Elder, this hermit Chong Xu has been stuck in the late golden core stage for several decades without any progress. It's safe to say that his lifespan is running short. Meanwhile, little Xin is the most talented member of the Lin family in this generation. If given time, she has the potential to undergo a deity transformation and ascend just like the revered Elder Guangwei.
事到如今，老夫也不瞒着什么了。星宫素来以双修为重，而林家作为星宫的一支，素有与它系联姻的惯例，族中上下已是习以为常。虽说心儿对此一直有不满，甚至有些偏见，但对此次联姻的猜疑也不无道理。¤At this point, I won't hide anything anymore. The Star Palace has always placed great emphasis on dual cultivation, and as a branch of the Star Palace, the Lin Family is accustomed to forming alliances with other branches. This is a common practice within the clan. Although Little Xin has always been dissatisfied with this, and even harbors some bias, her suspicion about this union is not completely unfounded.
{FirstName}小友，你来了。¤Hello {FirstName} young friend, you have arrived.
前辈请说。¤Senior, please speak.
呵呵，本来老夫也不太肯定出现于此的会是谁，但片刻前老夫感知到小友出现在林府，便是有了些许结论。¤Hehe, I wasn't sure who would appear here, but a moment ago I sensed that my young friend had appeared at Lin House, so I have come to a conclusion.
晚辈知晓。¤I am aware, junior.
前辈知道我要来？¤Did the senior know that I was coming?
原本老夫还在猜想心儿是否知道，小友与倪家少爷此前乃是一同前来林府。即便心儿知晓此事且找上了小友，小友又是否愿意帮助心儿。这就不是老夫能妄加揣测的了。¤Originally, this old man was still guessing whether Little Xin knew that Young Friend and the young master of the Ni family had previously come to the Lin house. Even if Little Xin knew about it and approached Young Friend, it is unsure if Young Friend would be willing to help her. This is not something that this old man can speculate on.
小友，你来了。¤Young friend, you're here.
但封城时，老夫已是见到倪家家主与其一同离去，心儿却滞留城中，定是寻而不得。在此种情况下，与倪家少爷一同前来林府的小友，也就顺理成章地成了心儿的选择了。¤During the city sealing, this old man had already seen the Ni family patriarch leaving with him. Little Xin was left behind in the city and could not be found. Under these circumstances, the young friend who came to Lin House with the young master of the Ni family became Little Xin's natural choice.
而家主闭关多年，谁也不知道其中是什么情况，若不到最后关头，心儿自然不会选这条路。那老夫就只要于此静候心儿的消息便好。¤The sect leader has secluded himself for many years, and no one knows what is going on. Little Xin will not choose this path unless it is the last resort. The old man will wait here for Little Xin's news.
但我适时出现在了林府。¤But I appeared at Lin House at the right time.
家主又是最为疼爱心儿，由此可想，这冲虚散人别说是星宫大长老弟子，即便是大长老本人，此次联姻也无半点可能。¤The head of the family, who also dotes on Little Xin the most, can be thought of as reluctant to even consider this Hermit Chong Xu as a disciple of Star Palace Grand Elder, let alone the Grand Elder himself, for the purpose of this marriage alliance.
呵呵，那就得先说说宁州几大家族年轻一辈的大少爷了。百里家那位性烈如火，但过于崇尚实力；而公孙家那位举止文雅，却是工于心计；最后倪家的大少爷，虽说贪玩且好管闲事，但因为性格直爽，也是人缘最好的一位。¤Hehe, let me first talk about the young masters of the major families in Ningzhou. The eldest son of Baili family is passionate and values strength too much; the eldest son of Gongsun family is elegant in demeanor, but skilled in scheming; finally, the eldest son of Ni family, despite being playful and meddling, has the best personality and relationships with others due to his upfront nature.
若无其他要事，小友还是快些回去找心儿吧，料想那丫头正担心着呢。¤If there's nothing else to attend to, my young friend, I suggest you hurry back and find little Xin. I imagine that girl is worried sick about you.
听老夫啰嗦了这么久，现在该小友说说你们的计划了。¤After listening to this old man's verbose talk for so long, now it's time for my young friend to share your plan.
呵呵，不错，小友的出现让答案昭然若揭。¤Hehe, not bad. The appearance of our young friend has made the answer clear.
你将此前与林沐心的交流一一道来，通羽上人只是静静聆听，直到你说完还保持着一副若有所思的样子。¤You recounted your past interactions with Lin Muxin to Venerable Tongyu, who listened silently until you finished speaking. Even after you had finished, he remained deep in thought.
嗯...请小友转告心儿，若是你们有了计划，老夫会伺机配合。如有找到其他长老收贿受赂的证据，老夫更是可以强行终止这次联姻，等家主出关再做处理。¤Well...Please tell little xin, if you have a plan, this elder will cooperate when the opportunity arises. If evidence of other elders accepting bribes is found, this elder can forcefully terminate the alliance, and we will deal with it when the head of the family comes out of seclusion.
我想，此人既然敢在方壶山作恶，我宗定不会坐视不管的。¤I believe that since this person dares to commit evil at Fang Hu Mountain, our sect will not sit idly by.
大哥应该是在方壶山附近采摘炼丹所需的药材吧...但那附近可是竹山宗的地界，能出什么意外呢？¤Big brother must be gathering medicinal materials for alchemy near Fang Hu mountain... But that area is within the territory of Bamboo Mountain sect, so what unexpected events could occur?
我这就去往竹山宗，请竹山宗的长老们帮忙调查此事！¤I will now set off towards Bamboo Mountain Sect. I kindly request the elders of Bamboo Mountain Sect to assist in investigating this matter!
真的非常感谢你能告诉我这些，我也没有什么能够报答你的，这几颗是大哥生前炼制的丹药，还请你能够收下...¤Thank you very much for telling me all this. I have nothing to repay you with. These pills were refined by the eldest brother before he passed away. I hope you can accept them.
你找到我大哥了？¤Did you find my eldest brother?
别难过了，人死不能复生。¤Don't be sad, the dead can't come back to life.
道友，看你一个人在这里发愁，可是遇到了什么难处？¤Fellow daoist, I see you are troubled here alone. Have you encountered any difficulties?
{vpunch=10,0.5}这...这是我大哥的储物袋！¤{vpunch=10,0.5} This... this is my eldest brother's storage pouch!
你...你有我大哥的消息了？¤Do you... Do you have news about my elder brother?
你可知道你大哥与你分别前是去了什么地方？¤Do you know where your eldest brother went before you parted ways?
你说的对，我这就去往竹山宗，请竹山宗的长老为我大哥报仇！¤You're right, I'll head towards Bamboo Mountain Sect and ask their elder to avenge my big brother!
(我还是不要多管闲事了吧。)¤(I better not meddle in other people's business.)
哎...可别出了什么事才好...¤Ah...I hope nothing bad happens...
你将自己在方壶山的所见所闻一一说来。¤You will tell us all that you have seen and heard on Fang Hu Mountain.
我想，此人既然敢在方壶山作恶，竹山宗定然不会坐视不管的。¤I believe that since this person dared to commit evil deeds on Fang Hu Mountain, Bamboo Mountain Sect will definitely not just sit back and do nothing.
哎...大哥怎么还没有回来，这都已经过去那么久了...¤Ah...how come big brother hasn't come back yet? It's been so long already...
呜呜呜...都怪我，大哥若不是为了帮我采药炼丹，也不会遇到这种事...¤Boohoo... It's all my fault. If my big brother hadn't helped me gather herbs and refine alchemy, we wouldn't have encountered this kind of thing...
谢谢你告诉我这些！既然这个人敢在方壶山作恶，竹山宗肯定不会坐视不管的。¤Thank you for telling me this! Since this person is doing evil on Fang Hu Mountain, Bamboo Mountain Sect will definitely not sit idly by.
哎...这可如何是好...¤Ah... what should I do...
我这就去往竹山宗！¤I am now heading towards the Bamboo Mountain Sect!
这么说，我大哥很有可能也是被此人抓去了...¤So you're saying that it's highly likely that my eldest brother was also captured by this person...
阁下有所不知。我与大哥约定要在这广陵城的客栈碰面，眼下这约定的时间已经过去大半个月了，大哥却还不见踪影。¤You may not know this, but my big brother and I had arranged to meet at an inn in Guangling City. It has been over half a month since our agreement, but I haven't seen any sign of him.
道友莫急，这头怪物就交给我吧。¤Fellow Daoist, do not worry. Leave this monster to me.
你我联...噗~~¤You and I, connect... *pfft~~*
不远处阵阵咆哮伴随着剧烈的能量波动传来，乃是一只造型丑陋的怪龙正在围攻一个屏障，屏障之中端坐着一个剑眉星目的俊朗男子。¤From not far away came the roars accompanied by violent energy fluctuations. It was caused by an ugly looking monster dragon attacking a shield. Inside the shield, a handsome man with sword-like eyebrows and starry eyes was sitting calmly.
在下就是龙族族长敖玄，来你我联手除去这尸蛟。¤I am the leader of the Dragon Clan, Aoxuan. Let's work together to eliminate this Corpse Dragon.
见你靠近怪龙停手目露凶光的看着你，又时不时贪婪的望向屏障中的男子，而屏障中的男子疑惑的看了看你与悬在身边的龙鳞印。¤As you approach the monster dragon, it stops and glares at you with a fierce gaze. It occasionally looks greedily towards the man inside the shield, while the man inside the shield looks at you and the dragon scale seal hanging by your side with confusion.
这男子捏起法诀，你感受到身边的龙鳞印似有感应，开始颤动。¤The man formed a hand seal and you could feel the dragon scales beside you reacting and starting to tremble.
话音未落，敖玄就喷出一口鲜血，虚弱的跪倒在了地上。¤Before the words could even exit his mouth, Ao Xuan spurted out a mouthful of blood and weakly fell to his knees on the ground.
这陨龙之地乃是上古龙宫的碎片，我受困此地传音符发不出去，也是难怪。¤The land of the fallen dragons is actually a fragment of the ancient dragon palace. I am trapped here and unable to use the sound talisman to communicate. It's no wonder.
你不是来救我的？¤Aren't you here to save me?
敖灵？这傻丫头哦。¤Ao Ling? That silly girl.
还好道友来得早，要不然死在这两只畜生手中怕是要连皮带骨都被吞个干净喽。¤Fortunately, fellow daoist arrived early. Otherwise, I'm afraid I would have been devoured by these two beasts, skin and bones included.
（你还挺会讲话....）¤You're quite eloquent....
真是龙鳞印？阁下面生，看来是我龙族的新客卿？¤Is that the Dragon Scale Seal? You must be a new guest of my Dragon Clan.
这陨龙之地乃是上古龙宫的碎片，我受困此地传音符发不出去，也就是她还会如此费心找人前来救我。¤The Land of the Fallen Dragons is a fragment of the Ancient Dragon Palace. I am trapped here and unable to use the Sound Talisman to call for help. That's why she went to such lengths to find someone to save me.
咳咳咳....¤Ahem...
我有要事回报，我宁州城内有魔门余孽。¤I have important news to report. There are still remnants of the demonic sect in Ningzhou city.
你就将此物带到离火门沃焦山执事堂，再将交换的物品带回来。¤Just bring this item to the Deacon's Hall of Inferno Mountain of Fire Gate Sect and bring back the exchanged items.
我直接出手了结这个魔教妖人。¤I directly took action to deal with this demonic cultist.
我了解了，剩下的具体事宜，就由我们审问这两个家伙得知吧。¤I understand, let's leave the rest of the details to be found out through our interrogation of these two guys.
宁王府确实暗通魔教，那宁王为了续命，搭上了天魔道换取活人入药秘术用以续命。¤The Ning King's Manor is indeed colluding with the Heavenly Demon Cult. In order to extend his life, the Ning King has resorted to trading with the Heavenly Demon Cult for the secret arts of using living humans as medicine to prolong his life.
血剑宫，血剑宫是雍州第一大派，和我白帝楼颇有宿怨，你以后遇到要谨慎应对。¤Blood Sword Palace, the largest sect in Yongzhou, has a long-standing feud with our White Emperor Pavilion. Be cautious when you encounter them in the future.
我们与离火门合作，一直在寻找，离火门内部的真正的内鬼。¤We've been working with the Fire Gate Sect to find the real mole inside the sect. Heavenly Fire may be a key in this search.
唉，宁王府我自然不放在眼里，但是...这宁王府背后可是玄道宗。¤Ah, I naturally do not care for the Ning King's Manor, but... behind it is the Xuan Dao Sect.
不得不说，自从那墨居仁暴露之后，虽然积极配合调查但是隐藏下来的魔门妖人，却也没有什么进展。¤It must be said that ever since the exposure of Mo Juren, although he has actively cooperated with the investigation, the hidden demons of the demonic sect have not made any progress.
快讲！¤Please speak quickly!
道友，我白帝楼绝学仅对持有白帝令的青年才俊开放。¤Fellow daoist, the White Emperor Pavilion's ultimate skills are only open to the talented youths who possess the White Emperor's Decree.
空间裂缝？！¤Space fissure?!
此次不同的怀疑对象，会接到不一样的情报，就看那个鱼儿上钩了。所以你也不要太过忧心，也许此行并不会出事。¤This time, the suspect is different and will receive different information. It depends on which fish takes the bait. So don't worry too much, maybe nothing will happen on this trip.
你那位好友，也是这样加入宁王府的？¤Did your friend also join the Ning King's Manor like this?
所伤，目前下落他二人也不知。¤The whereabouts of Suo Shang are currently unknown to both of them.
离火门绝焰堂执事墨居仁，因修炼¤Fire Gate Sect's Absolute Flame Hall Deacon Mo Juren, due to cultivation,
...嗯，我知道了。\r此事事关重大，还望你保密。¤Mm, I understand. This matter is of great importance, so I hope you will keep it confidential.
这一次在巫山活动的人确实是在追击叛徒黑心老人，据二人所说黑心老人被¤This time, the people active in Mt. Wu were indeed pursuing the traitor Old Man Darkheart. According to the two, after Old Man Darkheart was captured, he was taken to Mt. Wu for interrogation.
快讲。¤Speak quickly.
所以这一次我们决定引蛇出洞！¤So this time we decided to lure the snake out of its hole!
墨居仁啊...没想到啊。¤Mojuren... I never expected to see you.
寿元亏空，伤了根本，再难突破，所以受到古神教的诱惑。¤Due to a depleted lifespan and fundamental injury, it is difficult to make a breakthrough. Thus, they were tempted by the ancient god sect.
对，没有确凿证据，这宁州谁都动不了他。¤Yes, there is no solid evidence, so no one in Ningzhou can touch him.
我？这些东西应该很是贵重的吧？¤Me? These things should be quite valuable, right?
那如今除了这些，可有其他线索？¤Other than these, do you have any other clues now?
道友，既然有此心意，那我白帝楼欢迎你的加入，从今以后你就是白帝楼内阁弟子，可以兑换我白帝楼核心功法和高阶仙剑。¤Fellow daoist, since you have such intention, then White Emperor Pavilion welcomes your joining. From now on, you will be a disciple of the inner court of White Emperor Pavilion, eligible to exchange for our core techniques and high-level immortal swords.
又一个？天魔道究竟有多少据点？¤Another one? How many strongholds does the Heavenly Demon Cult have exactly?
天魔眼？此事事关重大，速速道来¤Heavenly devil's eye? This is of great importance. Quickly explain.
我在九嶷山，遇到被蛊真人所伤的黑心老人。¤I met an old man named Darkheart who was injured by a gu expert on Jiuyi Mountain.
所以，我想拜托你帮我，查查这宁王府。¤Therefore, I would like to ask for your help to investigate the Ning King's Manor.
近年来，化尘教自封山门，已有数年未招收弟子，不知是出现了什么变故。¤In recent years, the Shifting Sand Sect has closed its doors and hasn't accepted any disciples for several years. It's unknown what caused this change.
我有情报需要汇报，此事关乎天魔眼。¤I have information to report, which concerns the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
不论如何，你帮了我也算是为我挚友报仇，而且此番能够查清天魔道于宁王府勾结之事，也是大功一件，理应获得奖赏。¤No matter what, helping me is considered avenging for my dear friend. Moreover, being able to investigate the collusion between the Heavenly Demon Cult and the Ning King's Manor is a great achievement and should be rewarded accordingly. You should gain some rewards.
还是多谢你帮我了却一桩心事。¤Thank you for helping me resolve a worry.
没，其实这算是我私人的一个请求吧。¤No, actually this is more like a personal request of mine.
嗯，你所说的我已记录，之后的事件我会处理的。¤Okay, I've recorded what you said. I will handle the following events.
嗯...我知道了。¤Uh... I see.
起初她所使用的不过是普通的剑术，见不能将我拿下后，对方御使一柄血气缭绕的仙剑，攻势极其凌厉。¤At first, she only used ordinary swordsmanship. Seeing that she couldn't take me down, the opponent wielded a fairy sword wrapped in blood energy, with an extremely fierce attack.
玄道宗？¤Xuan Dao Sect?
嗯，我这就前往。¤Hmm, I'll head there now.
他们有什么问题吗？他们也勾结魔修了？¤Do they have any problems? Did they also collude with demonic cultivators?
血剑宫极为残忍，每个寿元将尽突破无望的金丹修士都要强制加入祭血使。¤The Blood Sword Palace is extremely cruel, forcing every cultivator whose lifespan is about to end with no hope of breakthrough to join the Blood Sacrificial Ritual.
更蹊跷的是，我亲自打探，得到的情报是他已经抵达中州，而宁王府近日也无异常。¤What's even more unusual is that when I investigated personally, I found out that he had already arrived in Ningzhou, and there were no abnormalities in the Ning King's Manor recently.
你是指？古神教的叛徒？¤Are you referring to the traitor of the Ancient God Sect?
应该又是魔教妖人作祟。¤It should be the work of demonic cultists.
对方深深的看着你，似乎在辨别所说的真伪。¤The other party looked deeply at you, as if discerning the authenticity of what was said.
而且，还有人假冒各个门派的修士，袭杀各个宗门参加试炼的人。¤Moreover, there are people impersonating cultivators from various sects and attacking those who participate in the sects' trials.
天邪子来势汹汹，覆巢之下无完卵，我不得不和他联手自保。¤The Heavenly Devil is coming in full force, and under his sweeping attack, there will be no survivors left. I have no choice but to ally with him to protect myself.
天魔眼中有人从¤In the Heavenly Devil's Eye, someone is visible.
墨师兄...最后被大师兄带走，也不知道如何了¤Senior Brother Mo... was finally taken away by Master and I don't know what happened to him.
墨居仁...我还有印象，此人最后被炎萧所带走。¤I still remember Mo Juren, he was taken away by Yan Xiao in the end.
我们收到情报最近{color=#d0380a}巫山{/color}似有古神教中人出现，需要你前往调查一番。¤We have received intelligence that recently, there seem to be members of the {color=#d0380a}Mt. Wu{/color} present in the {color=#d0380a}Ancient God Sect{/color}. We need you to investigate this matter.
中出来。¤Come out.
所以，你是要我以此加入宁王府？¤So, you want me to join the Ning King's Manor through this?
对方是？¤Who is the other party?
晚辈依照所示，前往正阳山调查化尘教封山一事。就目前已知的线索来看，化尘教应该是被魔门渗透了，而幕后黑手正是...¤As per the instructions, I, a junior member, have gone to Mount Yang to investigate the matter of the Shifting Sand Sect's mountain closure. Based on the current clues known, it appears that the Shifting Sand Sect has been infiltrated by demonic forces, and the mastermind behind it all…” 
这是我承诺的酬劳，我不会食言的。你可以三选一。¤This is the reward I promised, I won't go back on my word. You can choose one of three options.
正是¤It is indeed
你若有机会经过正阳山一带，可以代为打听一番，看能否得到一些有用的情报。¤If you ever pass by the area around Mt. Rising Sun, please inquire around to see if you can gather any useful information.
我们白帝楼剿灭过的大小据点，就已经有数近十处了。¤We have already annihilated nearly ten different strongholds, both big and small, under the White Emperor Pavilion's command.
这一次在巫山活动的人确实是在追击叛徒黑心老人，但他们还不知道天邪子被我诛杀。¤The people who mobilized at Mt. Wu this time were indeed in pursuit of the traitor Old Man Darkheart, but they do not yet know that Heavenly Devil has already been eradicated by me.
古神教的，被我放倒了，剩下的就交给阁下了。¤The Ancient God Sect has been brought down by me, the rest is up to you, Your Excellency.
我们与离火门合作，一直在寻找离火门内部的真正的内鬼。¤We have been cooperating with the Fire Gate Sect to find the true traitor within their ranks. Heavenly fire may be the key to uncovering their identity.
小友此番倒是很快嘛，这两个人是？¤My young friend, you're quite fast this time. Who are these two people?
这不就是金丹巅峰的死士？¤Isn't this a dead warrior at the peak of the Golden Core?
对方是金丹修士，此番凶险辛苦你了。¤The opponent is a cultivator with a golden core. You've worked hard to deal with their danger this time.
但是，不久之后他存在我这里的命符碎裂。¤However, shortly afterward, the talisman he left with me shattered into pieces.
此次事件，始作俑者是倪振南，意在打探戮仙剑的下落。¤In this incident, the instigator was Ni Zhennan, whose purpose was to investigate the whereabouts of the Immortal Executing Sword.
这人剑，乃是我白帝楼剑术入门典籍，你好好参悟一番。¤This Human Sword is a foundational scripture of swordsmanship in my White Emperor Pavilion. Study it carefully.
这是此番任务的奖励，这次多谢小友你了。¤This is the reward for this quest. Thank you young friend for your help this time.
通常我白帝楼信物白帝令是发放给能在英杰会取得魁首的青年才俊的，毕竟魔修凶狠诡诈，庸人入我白帝楼也是白白送命。¤Usually, the White Emperor Pavilion's token, the White Emperor's Decree, is only given to the talented youths who become champions in the Young Hero's Tournament. After all, demon cultivators are fierce and cunning, and ordinary people who enter the White Emperor Pavilion will only be throwing their lives away.
（看来此事还是有人察觉了。）¤(It seems someone has noticed this.)
道友，宗门弟子不能成为我白帝楼的核心弟子。¤Fellow daoist, disciples from other sects cannot become the core disciples of my White Emperor Pavilion.
好了，此事我已知晓。后续楼内会处理的。¤Okay, I am aware of this matter. It will be dealt with by the management of the building.
我有情报需要汇报，此事关乎黑心老人。¤I have intelligence to report. This matter is related to Old Man Darkheart.
此番道友功不可没，这些灵核便赠与道友了。¤Fellow Daoist, your contribution this time cannot be overlooked. These spiritual cores shall be gifted to you.
晚辈，已经获得些许线索，回来复命。¤Junior disciple, I have gained some clues and have returned to report.
化尘教自封山门数年，近日才开始重新招收弟子，也不知是出现了什么变故。¤The Shifting Sand Sect had sealed their mountain gate for several years, but only recently have they started to recruit disciples again. It is unclear what caused this change.
他所使用的是何法门？¤What kind of technique is he using?
宁王，在逸风城摆下斗法台招收优胜的筑基修士作为供奉。¤The Ning King has set up a dueling terrace in Yifeng City to recruit successful cultivators at the foundation building level as guest elders.
道友，你还未通过我白帝楼的考验。（当前声望不足）¤Fellow daoist, you have not yet passed the test of my White Emperor Pavilion. (Current reputation is insufficient)
黑心老人？那个古神教的叛徒？¤Old Man Darkheart? The traitor of the Ancient God Sect?
什么？竟有魔修如此猖狂。¤What? There are actually demonic cultivators so brazen.
逸风城？¤Yifeng City?
我已查清。¤I have found out.
你听说过，宁王府吗？¤Have you heard of Ning King's Manor?
天魔眼已被封禁，有玄道宗看守，不会有问题吧~¤The Heavenly Devil's Eye has been sealed and guarded by the Xuan Dao Sect, so there shouldn't be any issues.
道友，我白帝楼的核心弟子需要剑道初窥门径。¤Fellow daoist, as a core disciple of White Emperor Pavilion, I require a first glimpse of sword dao.
是这样吗？剩下的具体事宜，就由我们审问这两个家伙得知吧。¤Is that so? The specific details that remain will be learned through our interrogation of these two fellows.
离火门也被古神教侵扰？¤Is the Fire Gate Sect also being disrupted by the Ancient God Sect?
我有一位好友曾加入宁王府成为供奉，前段时间他传信于我，说他受宁王之托要动身去往中州办事。¤I have a good friend who once joined the Ning King's Manor as a guest elder. Recently, he messaged me, saying that he had been entrusted by the Ning King to go to Ningzhou for some business.
嗜血珠？我并未见到。¤Bloodthirsty Pearl? I haven't seen it.
离火门之中还有魔门内鬼？嗯，我了解了。此事我会处理的。¤There's a spy from the Demon Sect inside the Fire Gate Sect? Hmm, I understand. I will handle this matter.
血剑宫会以秘法将他们提升至金丹巅峰，同时迫使他们参加各个危险的任务，以求于绝境中窥得突破的契机。¤The Blood Sword Palace will use secret techniques to elevate them to the peak of the Golden Core realm, while forcing them to participate in various dangerous quests in hopes of seizing a breakthrough opportunity in dire circumstances.
对，此事凶险，你若是为难就当我没说过吧，但只要能查清真相，不论是结丹秘术，还是内阁功法，亦或是法宝级的仙剑，我都可以作为报答。¤Yes, this matter is dangerous. If you are hesitant, then just pretend I never mentioned it. However, as long as you can find out the truth, whether it's the secret skill of dan array, the techniques of the imperial court, or the immortal swords at treasure level, I can repay you.
要不然怎么是引蛇出洞？表面上是以暗度陈仓的方式交易，这种交易我们已经维系了很久了，对方必不会起疑。安心此次有高手暗中保护你的。¤Otherwise, why would we lure the snake out of its hole? On the surface, we will trade through covert means. We have been conducting such trades for a long time and the other party will not suspect anything. Rest assured that there is a skilled expert secretly protecting you this time.
不知道，我现在能否成为白帝楼内阁弟子。¤I don't know if I can become a disciple of the inner court at White Emperor Pavilion now.
你就将此物带到你离火门沃焦山执事堂，再将交换的物品带回来。¤Just bring this item to the Deacon's Hall of Inferno Mountain in your Fire Gate Sect, and then bring back the exchanged items.
不过毕竟此行很是危险，此番我白帝楼愿意提供{color=#d0380a}结丹秘术《大周天吐纳》{/color}供你一阅。¤However, this journey is very dangerous after all. This time, my White Emperor Pavilion is willing to provide you with the secret skill of dan array and the 《great circumstance exhalation》 for your reference.
是有关宁王府的。¤This is related to the Ning King's Manor.
嗯.....不过，你可知嗜血珠的下落？¤Hmm... but do you know the whereabouts of the Bloodthirsty Bead?
据离火门求助，离火门绝焰堂执事墨居仁受古神教诱惑，但内鬼不只他一人。¤According to the request of the Fire Gate Sect, the absolute flame hall deacon, Mo Juren, was enticed by the Ancient God Sect, but he is not the only traitor among them.
以白帝楼的势力，你何必如此大费周折。¤With the influence of the White Emperor Pavilion, why do you need to go through such trouble?
是这样吗？¤Is it so?
最近{color=#d0380a}巫山{/color}有可疑之人出现，所以需要你前往调查一番。¤Recently, there have been suspicious individuals appearing in Mt. Wu, so we need you to investigate.
我有情报需要汇报，此事关乎倪家。¤I have information that needs to be reported, this matter concerns the Ni family.
不过你并非化尘教弟子，出入正阳山，还需小心行事。¤However, you are not a disciple of the Shifting Sand Sect, so you should be careful when coming and going from Mt. Rising Sun.
但之后得知，似乎还有内鬼。¤But later I found out that there seemed to be a spy.
此番又有何发现？¤What new discoveries have you made this time?
这是此番任务的酬劳，小友收好。¤This is the reward for completing this quest, young friend. Please take it.
道友想要成为内阁弟子，还需先持有我白帝楼信物。¤Fellow Daoist who wishes to become a disciple of the Inner Court must first possess the token of our White Emperor Pavilion.
我与那邪修交过手，虽不能确定他是否是魔门，但其手段也绝非正道。¤I have fought against that devilish cultivator. Although I cannot confirm whether he belongs to the demonic sect, his methods are certainly not orthodox.
我最后帮助他击杀天邪子。¤I finally helped him kill the Heavenly Devil.
据你回报，离火门绝焰堂执事墨居仁之事。¤According to your report, there is something regarding Mo Juren, a deacon of the Absolute Flame Hall from the Fire Gate Sect.
目前没有什么需要交给道友的的任务。¤Fellow Daoist, there are currently no quests that need to be entrusted to you.
我在九嶷山，遇到被蛊真人所伤的黑心老人。他已经被天邪子所发现。¤I am at Jiuyi Mountain and I have encountered the old man Darkheart who was injured by the expert who practices Gu arts. He has already been discovered by the Heavenly Devil.
我离火门，居然还有此叛徒？¤I, of the Fire Gate Sect, cannot believe we have a traitor among us.
但是，自那以后我便再也没有收到过他的传音符。现在想来，恐怕已经...¤However, since then, I have not received any more sound talismans from him. Now that I think about it, I'm afraid he might have...
...嗯，我知道了。\r\n此事事关重大，还望你保密。¤Mm, I understand. This matter is of great importance, I hope you will keep it confidential.
祭血使？¤Blood sacrificial ritual performer?
我通过他们往来的传音玉简，还了解到古神教叛徒...¤Through the messaging jade slips exchanged between them, I learned about the betrayal of the Ancient God Sect's disciples...
祭血令？能击杀祭血使，此番凶险真的辛苦你了。¤Blood sacrifice decree? It can kill the blood sacrificial ritual users. This time, it's really hard work for you to take such risk.
我有一位好友，加入宁王府成为供奉，前段时间他传信跟我说他受宁王之托，动身中州办事。¤I have a good friend who joined the Ning King's Manor as a guest elder. Recently, he sent me a message saying that he was entrusted by the Ning King to go to Ningzhou for some business.
我这里有结丹秘术《小周天吐纳》，地阶剑道功法《砺剑诀》，以及一柄上品法宝仙剑。你可以从中任选其一。¤I have the secret skill of dan array, 《small heavenly exhalation》, earthly sword technique 《sharpening sword skill》, and an artifact immortal sword of superior grade. You can choose any one from them.
倪家？可是与倪家家主的中毒有关。¤Ni family? But it's related to the poisoning of the Ni family patriarch.
怎么，你与他熟识？¤What, you're acquainted with him?
我手头的任务，需持有白帝令的青年才俊方可执行，道友不太合适。¤The task at hand requires a young talent holding the White Emperor's Decree in order to carry out. Fellow Daoists are not quite suitable.
所以，我要如何行事？¤So, how should I proceed?
我在武陵城内，遇到一散修声称对我白帝楼很是仰慕，希望得人道剑典一观，之后将我诱骗至她的住处袭击我。¤I was in Wuling City when I met a wandering cultivator who claimed to be an admirer of my White Emperor Pavilion. She asked to see the Way of the Sword manual and then lured me to her residence where she attacked me.
又一个天魔道据点…只是没想到，竟在竹山宗…¤Another Heavenly Demon Cult stronghold... I just didn't expect it to be in the Bamboo Mountain Sect...
盗取了至宝嗜血珠，逃来了宁州，而古神教也已派遣护法前来追击。¤After stealing the precious Bloodthirsty Pearl, he fled to Ningzhou. But the Ancient God Sect has already dispatched guardians to pursue him.
道友，我白帝楼除魔卫道，你好自为之。¤Fellow Daoist, I, White Emperor Pavilion, am here to eliminate demons and uphold justice. Take care of yourself.
节哀...¤Take comfort...
离火门？此事事关重大，速速道来。¤Fire Gate Sect? This is of grave importance, please explain quickly.
近日屡屡有散修在方壶山一带失踪，原来是被一邪修抓了去。¤Recently, there have been numerous wandering cultivators missing in the Fang Hu Mountain area, as they have been captured by an evil cultivator.
此番凶险，这是我白帝楼的奖励，还望不要嫌弃。¤This danger is a reward from my White Emperor Pavilion. I hope you won't be dissatisfied.
这倒不是，墨居仁当年也算是一奇人，资质平平，但悟性极高。更是修炼威名赫赫的魔焰决，算是与炎萧同一批进入筑基期的“天才”呢。这是没想到啊....¤This is not the case. Mo Juren was also a remarkable figure back then. His aptitude was average, but his comprehension was extremely high. He even practiced the famous demon flame technique and was considered a genius who entered the foundation establishment period at the same time as Yan Xiao. This is quite surprising...
天魔道极会利用心魔与执念，往往许下点蝇头小利，便能蛊惑人心。¤The Heavenly Demon Cult is very adept at using the Demon Heart and obsessions. Often, they can easily deceive people with small, insignificant offers.
我有情报需要汇报，此事关乎离火门。¤I have intelligence to report, this matter is related to the Fire Gate Sect.
离火门作为仙宗大派，日常物资往来也是极多的，这一次他们向我白帝楼提出以火麟玉交换仙剑和各种灵材，就由你来送去。¤The Fire Gate Sect is a major faction in the immortal sect, and their daily supply of goods is very abundant. This time, they have proposed to exchange Fire-Lynx Jade for Immortal Swords and various spiritual materials with our White Emperor Pavilion. It is up to you to deliver them.
不错，魔教妖人人人得而诛之。不过，你可知嗜血珠的下落？¤Not bad, every demon in the demonic cult must be eliminated. However, do you know the whereabouts of the Bloodthirsty Bead?
道友，我白帝楼的核心弟子需有筑基修为。¤Fellow Daoist, the core disciples of my White Emperor Pavilion must have Foundation Building cultivation.
原来如此，辛苦小友了，我白帝楼对这些事绝不会坐视不理。¤So that's how it is. Thank you for your hard work, young friend. The White Emperor Pavilion will never ignore such matters.
嗯..我明白了。¤Uh… I understand.
还记得上次你带回来的情报吗？¤Do you remember the intelligence you brought back last time?
嗜血珠？似乎还在黑心老人身上。¤The Bloodthirsty Bead? It seems to still be on Old Man Darkheart's person.
原来如此，怪不得炎萧似是与此人有旧。¤That's how it is. No wonder Yan Xiao seems to have a history with this person.
原来如此，唉....¤So that's how it is, sigh....
这一次在巫山活动的人确实是追击叛徒黑心老人，据二人所说黑心老人被¤The people participating in the event at Mt. Wu this time are indeed chasing after the fugitive Old Man Darkheart. According to them, Old Man Darkheart was being chased to Mt. Wu, but his whereabouts are currently unknown.
活捉古神教妖人，这可是大功一件啊。这一次魔门妖人，又有何图谋？¤Capturing a member of the Ancient God Sect alive, that's a great achievement. What is the motive of these demonic creatures from the Demonic Sect this time?
你将枯木老祖私通天魔道之事如实相告。¤You will tell the truth about Patriarch Deadwood's collusion with the Heavenly Demon Cult.
趁着这一年一次的秘市，只要我凑够灵石，未尝不可以行为精进一层。¤During this annual secret market, as long as I gather enough spirit stones, I can potentially elevate my cultivation to level 1.
嗯？消息走漏了？¤Hmm? Has the news leaked?
那{shidi}小心。¤Be careful, {shidi}.
不可能，此行就你我二人轻装而来。不行，迟则生变{shidi}你留在此地接引后续弟子，我先行潜入。¤Impossible, we came here lightly only the two of us. This won't work, delays can lead to unexpected changes. You stay here to guide the younger disciples who come after, I'll sneak in first.
钟师兄，还是我来吧，这玄古门精于对付妖族还是我更保险一点。¤Senior Brother Zhong, let me handle this. I have more expertise in dealing with the monster race than the profound ancient sect.
{shidi}，前面的古月寨现在就是玄古门总部。¤{shidi}, the previous Gu Yue Village is now the headquarters of the Profound Ancient Sect.
不知为何，此时古月寨的守山大阵全力运转。¤For some reason, the Shoushan Formation of the Guyue Clan was in full operation at this moment.
好，我去云汐城跑一趟便是，你们便在此等我吧。¤Alright, I'll go to Yun Shi City and come back soon. You guys wait for me here.
被星宫宫主持续压迫的冲虚散人像是抓到了救命稻草，状若疯狂地向你嘶吼。¤The Hermit Chong Xu, who had been continuously oppressed by the Star Palace Master, was like he had caught a lifesaving straw, crazily shouting towards you.
又是你！一次又一次的，像只烦人的森蛛一般，来坏我好事！¤It's you again! Time after time, like an annoying forest spider, coming to ruin my good luck!
你推门而入后，林沐心迅速结束修炼，走向门口，眼中满溢着希望地看向你。而星铃儿只是慵懒的转过身，靠着窗栏将目光投过来。¤After you push the door open, Lin Muxin quickly ends her cultivation and walks towards the door, her eyes filled with hope as she looks at you. Meanwhile, Star Bell lazily turns around and leans against the windowsill, casting her gaze over towards you.
老朽此后定将严加看管，他若敢再犯，必将立时清理门户。¤From now on, this old man will watch over him strictly. If he dares to offend again, he will be immediately expelled.
而且还被你们弄出个棘手的谣言。¤Moreover, you have created a troublesome rumor.
{FirstName}道友，宫主虽是给你一本秘籍作为回报，但我们若不感谢你一番，实是过意不去。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, although the Palace Lord has given you a secret manual as a reward, we cannot let you go without expressing our gratitude.
林沐心正盘腿坐在地上修炼。星铃儿则凭栏而立，不知是在思考着什么，还是在欣赏那漫天交相辉映却又清冷的漫天星月。¤Lin Muxin was sitting cross-legged on the ground, cultivating. Star Bell was standing by the railing, either lost in thought or admiring the sparkling and clear stars and moon reflected in the sky.
哼，你叫林沐心就是{$lin}，到我这却换成了星道友？¤Hmph, your name is Lin Muxin {$lin}, but you've changed it to Fellow Daoist Xing when you come to me?
此术名唤《神交法》，乃星宫高阶双修秘术，现以此法赠与小友，还请勿外传。¤The name of this technique is called 《divine intercourse method》, which is a secret technique for dual cultivation at the high level of the Star Palace. I will now present this technique to my young friend, but please keep it confidential.
之后便是林沐心向两位长老讲述整件事的经过，以及三人不断的对你夸赞，许久才各自离去。¤Afterwards, Lin Muxin recounted the whole incident to the two elders and they both continuously praised you. It wasn't until a while later that they each left.
冲虚散人适才的气势早已消弭无踪，其内心怕是也像现下的长老堂一般，满地狼藉，混乱不堪，一时是不敢再开口言语。¤The hermit Chong Xu's previous imposing manner had already vanished without a trace. His heart was probably as disordered as the Elder Hall now, with debris scattered all over the place and chaos reigning. For a while, he didn't dare to speak again.
但你们也是实力不俗，再者冲虚散人境界未稳，竟是矗立在这风暴中一步未退。而室内的桌椅屏风等，虽尽皆不是凡物，却在此时遭了殃。¤But you are also not weak in terms of strength. Moreover, the hermit Chong Xu's realm is unstable, yet he stands firm in the midst of this storm. The tables, chairs and screens inside the room, although not ordinary items, have suffered damage at this moment.
也罢，你纵是不说，本宫也能猜到几分。¤Never mind. Even if you don't say it, this palace can guess a few things.
本姑娘也不为难你们，只是奔波数天有些馋了，先给我准备一坛好酒吧。¤I won't make things difficult for you guys, but after traveling for a few days, this girl is a bit hungry. Prepare a good barrel of wine for me first.
你这不识好歹的黄毛丫头，待我解决了外人，再来教训你！¤You ignorant little yellow-haired girl, wait until I deal with these outsiders before I come teach you a lesson!
哦？本宫的弟子可是提到冲虚长老为了突破，用了不少手段啊。¤Oh? I heard that the disciple of this palace mentioned that Elder Chongxu used many methods to make a breakthrough.
好啦好啦，小友可是为星宫出力不少，铃儿不要在计较这些了。¤Alright, alright, young friend has contributed a lot for Star Palace. Ling'er, don't worry about these things.
你跟着苗矮上人优哉游哉地来到长老堂。通羽上人和林家姐妹毅然在座，看到你进来，他们也是向你点头示意。¤You followed venerable Miaoai leisurely to Elder Hall. Venerable Tongyu and the Lin family sisters were resolute and seated. Upon seeing you enter, they also nodded in greeting to you.
{FirstName}小友实力真是惊人，冲虚散人在你手下竟无反抗之力。¤{FirstName}, your strength is truly incredible. Hermit Chong Xu couldn't resist you at all.
嗯，{$lin}的父亲不知去了何处闭关，无法为林府主持公道。我们又听闻星宫宫主近年来也一直在宫内闭关，只得请她老人家出来主事。但冲虚散人作为星宫长老，又盘踞其中，怕是不会给我们机会。所以...¤Well, {$lin}'s father has gone into seclusion somewhere and is unable to uphold justice for the Lin House. We've also heard that the Star Palace Master has been in seclusion within the palace in recent years, so we had to ask her to oversee things. However, the Hermit Chong Xu, as the Star Palace Elder, is also lurking within, and we're afraid he won't give us the opportunity. So...
（但他怎么能想到...）¤(But how could he have expected...)
我...我，我知错了！我不该贪图权势，我不该为难林家，我...我还不该...¤I...I, I know I was wrong! I shouldn't have coveted power, I shouldn't have caused trouble for the Lin family, I...I shouldn't have...
老朽定会好好教训这孽徒，还请宫主放心。¤I will definitely teach this wicked disciple a lesson, please rest assured, Palace Master.
看星宫宫主没有松口的意思，冲虚散人又是连忙跪下，一副诚恳认错的样子，前后的反差让星宫宫主直皱眉头。¤Seeing that the Star Palace Master was not relenting, Hermit Chong Xu hurriedly knelt down, looking like he was sincerely admitting his mistake. The contrast between before and after made the Star Palace Master frown.
正当你以为出了岔子时，却看见星玲儿向你眨眨眼睛示意不用担心。¤Just when you thought something went wrong, you saw Xing Ling'er wink at you with her eyes, signaling that there's no need to worry.
闻言，其他人都是看向星玲儿，却发现她不知何时已是离开冲虚散人身旁，躲到了你的身后，一时间让你成了众人的焦点。¤Upon hearing this, everyone looked towards Xing Ling'er, only to discover that she had already left the side of the Hermit Chong Xu and hid behind you without anyone noticing. This made you the center of attention for a moment.
前辈谬赞了，晚辈不过是...¤Senior, you flatter me. Junior is just...
仔细想来，天星城也有与盈手露齐名的醉仙酿，但料想是与前者走的不同路子。不然林沐心贵为林府二小姐，也不至于为这极品盈手露着迷。¤Upon careful consideration, it seems that Starsky City also has a famous Zuixian Nian that is on par with Ying Hand Dew. However, it is likely that it takes a different approach than the latter. Otherwise, Lin Muxin, as the second young lady of the Lin House, wouldn't be so obsessed with this high-quality Ying Hand Dew.
大胆！当着本宫的面还敢出手伤人！¤Bold! How dare you act recklessly and hurt someone in front of this palace!
哼，若不是{FirstName}小友找到本宫的弟子，只怕不出几日冲虚长老就要执掌星宫了罢？¤Hmph, if it wasn't for {FirstName}'s help in finding my disciples, I'm afraid Elder Chongxu would have taken over Star Palace in just a few days, young friend.
不多时，林沐心已是赶来。经过你的简单介绍后，她便是给星铃儿详细讲述冲虚散人此前在林府的作为，以及她的怀疑。¤Before long, Lin Muxin arrived. After a brief introduction from you, she proceeded to give Star Bell a detailed account of the actions of Hermit Chong Xu at Lin House before expressing her suspicions.
不...不敢...我，我只是为了星宫，对，为了星宫着想。若是让林家继续...¤I...I wouldn't dare...I, I just have the Star Palace in mind. Yes, for the sake of the Star Palace. If we let the Lin family continue...
只一揭开封口，便有花香夹带着清冽的酒香充满整个房间。两女本就是天生尤物，被这酒气一衬，更是娇艳万状。¤As soon as the seal was opened, a floral fragrance mixed with a clear alcohol scent filled the whole room. The two women were already naturally beautiful, but with this alcohol scent, they looked even more charming and alluring.
终于，冲虚散人的师父，星宫大长老无惑真人赶到了林家长老殿。¤Finally, the master of Hermit Chong Xu, the Star Palace Grand Elder, Paragon Confusionless, arrived at the Lin Family Elder Hall.
如今星宫才几位元婴长老，而我和师父已是占了其二，林家还是识趣些罢。¤Currently, the Star Palace only has a few Nascent Soul Elders, and my master and I occupy two of them. The Lin Family is wise to stay out of it.
看你一副悉听遵命的样子，星铃儿脸上尽是满足。倒是林沐心的表情有些古怪。¤Seeing you with a look of obeying and listening, Star Bell's face was full of satisfaction. But Lin Muxin's expression was a little strange.
何故致此，还不从实招来？¤Why did you do this? Just confess the truth.
宫主看似溺爱地揉了揉星铃儿的头发，惹得后者一阵白眼，但也未再抱怨什么。¤The palace lord seemed to dote on Star Bell as he tousled her hair, causing her to roll her eyes but she didn't complain any further.
我这就差人去给道友准备醉仙酿。¤I will send someone to prepare the Zuixian Brew for my fellow daoist.
苗矮长老素来口直心快，当年已是见识过了。¤Elder Miao Ai has always been forthright and quick-witted. He had already seen a lot in his past years.
筑基金丹修士在这道尖啸下都是一阵眩晕，其中中抵抗力较差者与练气修士等更是失去意识，瘫倒在地。¤The cultivators who had built their foundation and formed their golden core were all dizzy under the sharp whistle. Those with weaker resistance and those at the level of Qi refiners lost consciousness and collapsed on the ground.
冲虚前辈不过是给林家找了个莫须有的罪名罢，林家是否管理不善，你我皆知。¤Senior Chong Xu was only finding an unfounded accusation for the Lin family. Whether the Lin family is poorly managed, we all know.
星铃儿毫不客气地打断并“善解人意”地“帮”你说出想说的话，一副对情况已是十分了解的样子，但你也不敢松懈，毕竟这丫头可不是这么好相与的类型，即便这事其实与她也是相关。¤Star Bell interrupted and helped you say what you wanted to say without any hesitation. She seemed to have a deep understanding of the situation, but you couldn't relax around her. After all, she wasn't the type to be easily dealt with, even though this matter was related to her as well.
放心，去云汐城要坛酒而已，还不是简简单单。¤Don't worry, going to Yun Shi City just requires getting some altar wine, it's as easy as pie.
不好不好，还是太生分了些，不如叫我铃儿吧。铃儿，铃儿，多好听。¤Not good, not good, still too unfamiliar, better call me Ling'er. Ling'er, Ling'er, sounds so nice.
本在品尝盈手露的林沐心闻言也是一滞，险些被酒呛住。还好修仙之人有太多方法应对这种尴尬的局面，但还是引起你和星玲儿的注意，后者也是轻笑一声，假装自己完全没有在意。¤Lin Muxin, who was currently savoring the taste of Ying Hand Dew, was momentarily stunned by the words spoken. She almost choked on her drink. Fortunately, practitioners of cultivation had countless ways to handle such awkward situations, but it still caught the attention of you and Xing Linger. The latter let out a light laugh, pretending not to have noticed anything at all.
哦？那冲虚长老的意思是本宫来的时机不对，耽误你跟林家内斗了？¤Oh? So you mean Elder Chong Xu thinks that my arrival was ill-timed and caused a delay in your internal conflict with the Lin Family?
回到林府客房，两女正在房中等候着你。¤Returning to the guest room at Lin House, the two women were waiting for you inside.
（难道{$xing}被这冲虚散人逮到，没能唤宫主出关？）¤(Could it be that {$xing} was caught by this hermit Chong Xu and couldn't awaken the palace master from seclusion?)
只见星宫宫主略一挥手，一道淡金色的屏障出现在你身前。冲虚散人的神识攻击撞上屏障虽是引起表面剧烈波动，乃至整个屏障都在震颤，但终于还是如泥牛入海般消弭无踪。¤You see the Star Palace Master wave his hand and a faint gold shield appears in front of you. The hermit Chong Xu's soul sense attack hit the shield causing a violent surface disturbance and even shaking the entire shield, but it eventually disappeared without a trace like a mud cow in the ocean.
{size=24}{FirstName}道友这么快就回来了？我可是听说公孙家的人都以精明著称，居然这么好对付。{/size}¤{size=24}{FirstName} Fellow Daoist, you've returned so soon? I've heard the Gongsun Family is known for their shrewdness, yet you were surprisingly easy to deal with. {/size}
没遇到麻烦吧？¤Have you encountered any trouble?
另一方坐的却是星玲儿和...¤The other side was occupied by Xing Ling'er and...
哈，哈哈...的确是我们给星道友造成了麻烦。不知星道友想要我们如何补偿呢？¤Ha, haha... Indeed, we have caused trouble for fellow daoist Xing. May I ask what fellow daoist Xing would like us to do as compensation?
倒也不是不行，只是你们传的谣不但害我花了数天时间打听，还在城外以身为饵连日奔波，怎么也得补偿补偿我吧。¤It's not impossible, but the rumor you spread not only made me spend several days inquiring, but also made me run around outside the city as bait for several days. You should compensate me for that.
但也如铃儿所言，冲虚你潜力亏空，徒有元婴境之表而无其实。¤But as Ling'er said, your potential is lacking, with only the appearance of the Nascent Soul realm without its substance.
（{vpunch=10,0.5}冲虚散人！）¤（{vpunch=10,0.5}Hermit Chong Xu！）
那晚辈就却之不恭了。¤I was disrespectful that night.
宫主！请您手下留情！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Master! Please show mercy! {vpunch=10,0.5}
无惑真人到底是冲虚散人师尊，只凭一句话便是点醒那红着眼似是心魔发作的后者。¤The expert Paragon Confusionless is indeed the teacher of Hermit Chong Xu, who was able to snap the latter out of what seemed like a demon heart episode with just a single sentence.
只一揭开封口，便有花香夹带着清冽的酒香充满整个房间。两女本就是天生尤物，被这酒气一衬，更是娇艳万状。借着逸散开来的酒香，你竟是有些想入非非。¤As soon as the seal was opened, the fragrance of flowers mixed with the clear scent of wine filled the entire room. The two women were already born beauties, and with the scent of wine, they became even more alluring. The scent of wine that was diffusing made you somewhat delirious.
冲虚散人话音未落，一道不起眼的细长金芒静谧无声地刺向你的眉心！¤As soon as the words of Hermit Chong Xu fell, an inconspicuous slender golden light quietly pierced towards your forehead without a sound!
若真是如此，这冲虚长老确实有问题。但，两位道友以如此大的阵仗引我前来，不仅是为了告诉我此事吧？¤If it's really the case, then Elder Chong Xu indeed has some issues. However, my fellow daoists wouldn't have gone through such great lengths just to inform me about this, right?
一旁的林沐心此时也是在桌旁坐下来，两手撑着脸颊，一副迫不及待的样子。¤Lin Muxin, who was sitting next to them, also sat down at the table and propped up her cheeks with both hands in an eager manner.
这不是没其他办法联系{$xing}么，情急之下就，嘿嘿。¤Isn't there any other way to contact {$xing}? In desperation, haha.
在林沐心的讲述过程中，星铃儿也是脸上阴晴不定，像是写着“冲虚长老竟会私下里做出这种事”，待林沐心说到怀疑冲虚散人修习了采补功法时，她更是陷入了沉思。¤During Lin Muxin's retelling, Star Bell's expression also changed constantly, as if it read Elder Chong Xu would actually do such a thing in secret. When Lin Muxin mentioned her suspicions about Hermit Chong Xu practicing the technique of gathering and supplementing, Star Bell fell into even deeper contemplation.
面对宫主的发问，冲虚却只是如同死狗般呆滞地瘫在地上，哪还有星宫元婴长老的威风。¤In the face of the palace lord's inquiry, Chong Xu was as lifeless as a dead dog, lying motionless on the ground, with no hint of the imposing presence one would expect from a Star Palace Nascent Soul Elder.
但一看林家如今在座尽是金丹修士，唯一的元婴修士丹阳子也不知在哪闭关，她略一犹豫后叹了口气。¤However, upon seeing that everyone present were all Golden Core cultivators from the Lin Family, the only Nascent Soul cultivator Dan Yangzi was nowhere to be found as she was in secluded cultivation. She let out a sigh after hesitating for a moment. 
冲虚散人还想说些什么，但终究是咽了下去。¤The hermit Chong Xu wanted to say something, but ultimately swallowed it back down.
嗯，你们先回宫吧。¤Hmm, you guys go back to the palace first.
{FirstName}道友，请移步长老堂议事。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, please proceed to the elder hall for discussion.
你跟着苗矮上人优哉游哉地来到长老堂。通羽上人和林沐心毅然在座，看到你进来，他们也是向你点头示意。¤You follow Venerable Miaoai leisurely and arrive at Elder Hall. Venerable Tongyu and Lin Muxin are resolute and seated. Upon seeing you enter, they also nod in greeting.
你这只能欺负金丹期的元婴修士，也就能窝里横了，走出去真是丢星宫的脸！¤You can only bully nascent soul cultivators at the golden core stage, you can only bully them within your own clan, if you go outside, it would be a disgrace to the star palace!
苗矮就这性子，道友请勿怪罪。¤Fellow daoist, please do not blame Miao Ai for having such a personality.
哼，若不是我在外游历，早就解决这两个糟老头子带来的麻烦了。林家可是星宫不可分割的一部分，哪能轮到他俩肆意妄为。¤Hmph, if I weren't traveling outside, I would have already dealt with the trouble those two old men brought. The Lin family is an inseparable part of the Star Palace, how could they be allowed to act recklessly?
在此期间，冲虚散人若是再次违背宫规，本宫绝不会放过你第二次。¤During this period, if Hermit Chong Xu violates the palace rules again, this palace will not spare you a second time.
待你反应过来，距离已不过数尺！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Before you could react, the distance was only a few feet away! {vpunch=10,0.5}
星宫宫主正待出手击毙冲虚散人，一道男性修士的声音从远处传来，情急之下甚至忘了用神识传音，而是以灵力加持，如尖啸般传遍长老堂在座各位，林府甚至整个天星城的所有人耳中。¤The Star Palace Master was about to strike down the Hermit Chong Xu when a male cultivator's voice suddenly came from afar. In his urgency, he forgot to use his Soul Sense and instead infused his spiritual power into his voice, shouting out like a piercing whistle to all the elders in the room, as well as to everyone in the Lin House and even the entire Starsky City.
苗矮上人待你起身方才在前引路，领头走向长老堂。¤Venerable Miaoai waited for you to stand before leading the way towards the Elder Hall.
怎么，冲虚长老是觉得本宫不能来这里？¤What, does Elder Chong Xu think that this palace cannot come here?
看在大长老的面上，此事暂时就这样吧。先收回冲虚散人此前作为星宫长老的职权，贬为内门弟子，闭门思过至丹阳子出关后，再行讨论是否要追加其他处罚。¤Out of respect for the grand elder, let's put this matter to rest for now. First, strip hermit Chong Xu of his position as star palace elder and demote him to an inner disciple. He must reflect on his actions until Yang Pill comes out of seclusion. Afterward, we will discuss whether to impose further punishments.
哼，你当年明明是想强行与我结为道侣，怎么能算好事！应该是多亏{FirstName}{$NickName}暗中调查，才没让你这小人奸计得逞！¤Hmph, back then you clearly wanted to forcefully form a dao partner bond with me. How could that be considered a good thing? It's thanks to {FirstName}{$NickName}'s secret investigation that your vile plan didn't succeed!
你不是林家修士..但我好像见过你...那年也是你在从中作梗！是你坏我好事！是你...是你挑拨星宫与分支林家的关系！对，就是你！¤You're not a Lin Family cultivator, but I seem to have seen you before... That year, you were also causing trouble from the sidelines! You ruined my good deeds! It was you... You instigated the conflict between Star Palace and the branch of Lin Family! Yes, it was you!
星道友是我好友，而心儿却是我道侣，自然是有所不同。¤Fellow daoist Xing is my good friend, while little Xin is my fellow cultivator, naturally there is a difference.
没想到这么多年过去，林家还要仰仗道友相助，老夫作为林府大长老反倒因实力不足只能旁观，哎，真是后生可畏啊。¤I never thought that after so many years, the Lin family still has to rely on fellow daoists for help. As the grand elder of the Lin House, I can only watch from the sidelines due to my insufficient strength. It's really admirable how the younger generation surpasses us.
星宫宫主轻捏法诀，你身前的金色屏障又化作数枚金针，在她的厉啸中无声地刺向冲虚散人。¤The Star Palace Master lightly pinched a spell, and the golden shield in front of you turned into several golden needles. In her sharp cry, they silently pierced towards the Hermit Chong Xu.
急于转移话题的冲虚散人像是找到了发泄点，开始状若疯狂地向你嘶吼。¤The hermit Chong Xu, who was eager to change the topic, seemed to have found a vent and began to shout at you frantically.
大长老对星宫的贡献，本宫自是记在心底，但你这徒儿顽劣只怕纵是我愿给机会，他也不会珍惜罢。¤The grand elder appreciates the contributions of the Star Palace, but this disciple of mine is stubborn and may not cherish the opportunity given even if I am willing to provide it.
算你有理，不过星道友终归是太生分了些，还是叫我星姑娘吧。¤You're right, but fellow daoist Xing is still too unfamiliar. Just call me Xing girl instead.
眼见这星铃儿是明眸秋波转，雪肌透红霞，一副楚楚可怜的样子。你也只好气御酒坛，满上三盏。¤Upon seeing this Star Bell, with her bright and alluring eyes, snow-white skin, and rosy cheeks, she appeared pitiful and vulnerable. You had no choice but to fill up three cups with wine and drink your sorrows away.
除非父亲能及时归来，不然只怕林家在天星城的地位要一落千丈。¤Unless Father can return in time, I'm afraid the status of the Lin family in Starsky City will plummet.
无惑真人如蒙大赦，领着冲虚散人迅速离去了，场中只留下了你，林家众人和星宫宫主、星铃儿师徒。¤The Paragon Confusionless was granted amnesty and swiftly departed with Hermit Chong Xu, leaving only you, the Lin family, and Star Palace Master and their disciple Star Bell remaining in the scene.
你收下星宫秘术之后便是寒暄一会。不多时，星宫宫主就带星铃儿离去了。¤After you receive the secret arts of Star Palace, just exchange pleasantries for a while. Before long, the Star Palace Master took Star Bell and left.
你也适时拿出一坛极品盈手露放在桌上，灵力稍一激发，将泥封震裂，散落的碎渣也是被灵力尽皆荡开。¤You also timely brought out a jar of the finest ying hand dew and placed it on the table. With a slight surge of spiritual energy, the mud seal was shattered and the scattered debris was also completely dissipated by the spiritual energy.
眼见星铃儿终于是心满意足地离去，林沐心呆滞了片刻也是离开了客房，不知去向。¤After watching Star Bell leaving satisfied, Lin Muxin stayed in a daze for a moment before also leaving the guest room without direction.
天星城的醉仙酿就我早就喝腻了。倒是听说云汐城的盈手露很是不错，可惜公孙家很是吝啬，导致极品盈手露很少在市场上出现，若是上门讨要又拿人手短。所以嘛，就拜托{FirstName}道友咯~¤I have long grown tired of the Drunken Immortal Brew in Starsky City. However, I have heard that the Ying Hand Dew in Yun Shi City is quite good. Unfortunately, the Gongsun Family is very stingy with it, which results in the rare appearance of this exquisite brew in the market. If one goes to ask for it in person, they might come up short-handed. So, fellow daoist {FirstName}, I am counting on you.
哼，就凭你这伪元婴还想解决我？看不起谁呢！¤Hmph, you think you can deal with me with just your fake Nascent Soul? Don't underestimate me!
一道柔和的女声从长老堂正门传了进来，饶是在这灵气风暴中，也稳稳的传入在座诸位的耳中。¤A gentle female voice came from the main entrance of the Elder Hall, easily reaching the ears of everyone present despite the spiritual storm outside.
手下败将，安敢逞能！¤You're just a defeated underling, how dare you try to show off!
不要客气了，若不是有你在，我都不知此事该如何收场。¤Don't be polite, if it weren't for you, I wouldn't know how to handle this matter.
宫主叹了口气，朗声道。¤The palace master sighed and said loudly.
哼，通羽你就别倚老卖老了，再过个几十年，我们指不定就要叫一声{FirstName}前辈了。¤Hmph, Tongyu don't try to act like a senior, in a few decades, we might have to call you {FirstName} senior.
怎么，林家终于是知错了？¤What, the Lin family has finally realized their mistake?
孽徒！犯下此等大错还不知悔改，真是要{size=32}寻死{/size}不成！¤Evil disciple! Committing such a grave mistake and still not repenting, truly seeking {size=32}death{/size}!
那我便先回星宫了，你们去林府等我好消息吧。¤I will go back to the Star Palace first, you guys can go to Lin House to wait for good news from me.
冲虚散人嘴上说着，法宝已是吞吐着灵气蓄势待发。其上散发着的灵气，让原本平静的屋内以他为中心点，掀起一股灵气风暴。¤As the hermit Chong Xu spoke, his artifact was already gathering momentum with the spiritual energy it was absorbing. The aura it emanated caused a spiritual storm to surge around him, stirring up the previously tranquil room.
通羽上人则是一脸平静注视着冲虚散人。而你和林沐心迷茫地看向星玲儿，不知她又在打什么鬼主意。¤Venerable Tongyu looked on calmly as Hermit Chong Xu stood before him. You and Lin Muxin looked at Xing Ling'er, confused about what scheme she was planning.
若是现在把天星城管辖权交出来，等宫主出关，我还给你们美言几句，劝宫主不追究丹阳子那老鬼管理不周的责任，否则嘛，哼哼。¤If you hand over the control of Starsky City now, when the Palace Master comes out of seclusion, I will give you some nice words and persuade him not to hold Dan Yangzi responsible for his poor management. Otherwise, hmph.
宫...宫主...你，你怎么来了...¤Palace... Palace Lord... you, why did you come...
不...不敢，宫主想去的地方自然是能去的。¤I... I dare not. Where the Palace Master wants to go, we can naturally go.
{FirstName}小友，此次还得感谢你在中穿针引线。否则，等本宫出关，星宫不知要被这冲虚散人折腾成什么样子。¤{FirstName} young friend, I must thank you for connecting me with the right people. Otherwise, when I come out of seclusion, I don't know how much trouble this Hermit Chong Xu would cause for the Star Palace.
宫主，您看在老朽为星宫尽心尽力数百年的份上，还请放这孽徒一马。¤Palace Master, please spare this sinner for the sake of my dedicated service to Star Palace for hundreds of years.
半盏茶时间后，苗矮长老到来。¤Half a cup of tea later, Elder Miao arrived.
而星铃儿则是熟练的将三个不知名材质的青色小盏列于桌上。你还在为她拿出三个小盏惊讶时，星铃儿却眨巴着眼睛看向你。¤Meanwhile, Star Bell skillfully arranged three small cyan lamps of unknown material on the table. As you were surprised by her bringing out three small lamps, Star Bell blinked her eyes and looked at you.
苗矮上人满脸不忿地看着冲虚散人，只是上次受的伤虽不算太严重但也还未痊愈，当下也是敢怒不敢言。¤Venerable Miaoai glared at Hermit Chong Xu with resentment all over his face. Although the injuries he sustained from their last encounter were not too serious, he had yet to fully recover, and thus dared not speak out in anger.
你一边说着，旁边的林沐心一边理所当然地喝着盈手露，只是传递给你一个“算你识相”的眼神。¤you know what's good.
好，遵命，{$xing}。¤Good, I'll comply. {$name}.
所以就想找我帮忙请师父出关咯。¤So I want to ask for my master's help in coming out of seclusion.
哼，哼哼，看来上次的教训还没让你反省，也好，就让我再好好教育教育你。¤Hmph, hmph, it seems that you haven't reflected on the lesson from last time. Well then, let me educate you properly.
哼，通羽你就别倚老卖老了，{FirstName}道友可是当年就能击败冲虚散人，你我那时就不一定是他对手。¤Hmph, Tongyu, don't act like an old man in front of Fellow Daoist {FirstName}. It was Fellow Daoist {FirstName} who defeated Hermit Chong Xu back then. You and I may not have been his opponents at that time.
这...若是不介意，那我改口叫你星姑娘可好？¤If you don't mind, can I call you Star Girl instead?
星道友，现在酒也给你倒好了，待会是不是该你帮我们了？¤Fellow Daoist Xing, I have poured you some wine. Will you be assisting us soon?
在场几位只是相视一笑，便不再拘于此。¤The people present just exchanged a smile and no longer worried about this matter.
冲虚长老好强的气势，连本宫都为之倾倒了呢。¤The elder Chongxu's powerful aura is so impressive that even this palace is completely enamored with him.
当年老夫便是看着{FirstName}道友为林家解忧，只是还能在一旁帮衬一番。¤Back then, this old Daoist witnessed how Fellow Daoist {FirstName} helped to solve the Lin Family's worries, and was only able to offer some assistance on the sidelines.
不然以后丢林家的脸是小事，可别连带丢了星宫的脸！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Otherwise, it's not just a matter of losing face for the Lin family, but also potentially for the Star Palace! {vpunch=10,0.5}
本念着你师父无惑真人数百年来对星宫贡献匪浅，只想让你认错后悔过自新。但你既是执迷不悟，还当着本宫的面妄图加害{FirstName}小友，那就休怪本宫无情了！¤The reason why your master, Paragon Confusionless, has made significant contributions to Star Palace for hundreds of years is because he wants you to acknowledge your mistakes and repent. However, since you are stubborn and even attempted to harm young friend {FirstName} in front of us, we have no choice but to treat you as an enemy and show no mercy!
星铃儿心里虽是有些嘀咕，但听到你的话语还是轻移莲步转至桌旁坐下。¤Although she had some doubts in her heart, Star Bell lightly moved her steps and sat down at the table after hearing your words.
四代子弟冲虚散人，于突破无望时滥用采补邪术残害他人，此举为星宫难容，本宫以星宫宫主星...¤As a fourth-generation disciple of the Hermit Chong Xu, he resorted to the use of forbidden cultivation techniques to harm others when he found himself at a dead end in his pursuit of a breakthrough. This act was deemed unacceptable by the Star Palace, and as the Star Palace Master, I have decided to take action against him.
这位{gongzi}，要参加下一次的拍卖会么？入场费只要500灵石噢~¤Gongzi, would you like to participate in the next auction? The entrance fee is only 500 spirit stones.
为了保证拍卖会的质量，我们会请专门的鉴定师对拍品进行鉴定。因此，所有价值低于2000灵石的物品都是不允许在这里寄卖的。¤To ensure the quality of the auction, we will invite specialized appraisers to evaluate the items. Therefore, all items valued below 2000 spirit stones are not allowed to be consigned here.
客官，您上次的客房时间还有剩余，需要再续上么？¤Esteemed guest, do you still have remaining time for your guest room from your last visit? Do you need to extend it?
你刚一退下，公孙季就微笑着走到核心前。¤As soon as you stepped back, Gongsun Ji smiled and walked to the front of the core.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}又变强了不少啊，我尝试了好几次都无可奈何，居然被你这么随意的破除了。要是有机会，一定要和{FirstName}{xiongdi}切磋切磋。¤{FirstName}, your strength has improved a lot. I've tried several times but couldn't do anything against you, and you easily broke through my defenses. If there's a chance, I'd love to have a duel with you, {xiongdi}.
你巧妙的规避着阵法核心的攻击。好不容易找到个机会，你用尽全力轰击核心。随着一声巨响，核心碎裂开来。¤You cleverly avoided the attacks of the array core. Finally, you found an opportunity and struck the core with all your might. With a loud sound, the core shattered.
核心不断地攻击着公孙季的阵法，却没有什么明显的效果。待前者的攻击慢下来后，公孙季一声大喝并全力驱动阵法，竟是将核心镇压住，然后拘入自己的储物法宝中。¤The core relentlessly struck at Gongsun Ji's array, but without any clear effect. When the former's attack slowed down, Gongsun Ji let out a loud shout and fully activated the array, repressing the core and then imprisoning it in their own storage artifact.
你尝试了许久，但还是无法击破阵法核心，只得退下疗伤。¤You tried for a long time, but still couldn't break the core of the array, so you had to retreat and heal.
周遭的其他修士也是一脸惊讶的看着你，显然是没想到这个难住他们如此之久的天阵法核心，居然被你轻松击破。¤The other cultivators around you looked surprised, clearly not expecting you to easily break the array core that had been causing them so much trouble.
只见他挥手间便布下多重阵法，将阵法核心围困其中。¤I saw him wave his hand and set up multiple arrays, surrounding the core of the array within.
死~！¤Die~!
你在山脚下转了一会，便找到了那妖王的巢穴。¤You wandered around the foot of the mountain for a while and then found the lair of the demon king.
巢穴深处传来了凶狠的狐叫声。¤A fierce fox's howl came from deep within the lair.
道友既然来了，何再不与老夫过上两招？¤Fellow daoist, since you have come, why not share a couple of moves with this old man?
阁下可敢试试，自己能接老夫几招？¤Would you dare to try and see if you can handle a few moves from me?
突然，你汗毛倒立，一道劲风从你背后袭来，你躲闪不及，被重重地拍打到洞壁之上！¤Suddenly, your hair stands on end as a gust of wind attacks you from behind. You are unable to dodge and are heavily slammed into the cave wall!
你收敛气息，慢慢走进洞窟深处...¤You conceal your breath and slowly walk into the depths of the cave...
此等品阶的草药实乃可遇而不可求之物，可惜你并不是第一个发现它的人，另有一股强大的妖兽气息已经锁定了它。你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤Unfortunately, these herbs of this class are incredibly rare and hard to come by. Spirit beasts are also drawn to them, and you're not the only one who's discovered it. Another powerful spirit beast has already claimed it. What do you decide to do? {w}{w=0.5}
（没有必要冒此风险...）¤(There's no need to take this risk...)
蓬莎岛上妖兽材料是最重要的交易货币，修士可以用这些材料和他们换取妖兽情报，有了这些情报，你才能在无尽之海上获得最大的收益。¤On Pongsha Island, spirit beast materials are the most important trade currency. Cultivators can exchange these materials with them for spirit beast intelligence. With this intelligence, you can gain the greatest benefits on the Endless Sea.
我派于宁州传承数万余年，可惜当年的诸多功法神通皆已经失传了。¤Our sect has been passed down for over tens of thousands of years in Ningzhou. Unfortunately, many techniques and divine skills from that era have been lost to time.
那当然。功法优劣关系到修炼者炼化灵气的速度。阳寿有限，人生苦短，谁不想修炼得快些呢？¤Of course. The quality of techniques affects the speed at which cultivators spiritualize their Qi. With limited lifespan and the brevity of life, who wouldn't want to cultivate faster?
功法还分高低贵贱吗？¤Does technique also vary in terms of high and low status?
还来？¤Still coming?
黑衣人转身想跑，但那离火门修士怎可能让他如愿，漫天业火接踵而至，没过几招，那黑衣人便闷声倒下了¤The black-clothed man turned around and tried to run, but how could the Fire Gate Sect cultivator let him go so easily? Heavenly fire rained down on him one after another, and after only a few moves, the black-clothed man fell to the ground without making a sound.
哼，自寻死路。¤Hmph, seeking death.
你不再收敛气息，刚准备出手时，异变陡生。¤You no longer restrain your breath, just when you were about to make a move, a sudden change occurs.
情形急转直下，面对黑衣人凛冽的攻势，离火门修士眼看就要支撑不住了。¤As the situation took a sharp turn and the black-clad attackers launched their fierce assault, the cultivators of the Fire Gate Sect were on the brink of collapsing under the pressure of the onslaught of the heavenly fire.
要知道，就连九转灵蛇丹这种五品丹药都无法恢复的如此迅速！¤You should know that even with divine healing pills, which are fifth grade pills, recovery can't be as fast as this!
这是？风雨楼的招式？¤Is this a move from Storm Manor?
而那同门修士你自然认识，正是管理外务的杨长老。¤And you naturally recognize those fellow cultivators, among them is the elder Yang who manages external affairs.
好阴毒的手段？！离火门长老怎会……¤What a sinister method?! How could the Fire Gate Elder of the Fire Gate Sect...
只见离火门修士飞速吞下一颗诡异的“丹药”，数息之内，腹部恐怖的伤口便恢复如初，神识威压也陡然攀升了一个境界。¤I saw the Fire Gate Sect cultivator swiftly swallow a strange pill. Within a few breaths, the horrible wound on their abdomen recovered completely, and their Soul Sense's Might Suppression suddenly ascended to a new level.
就在黑衣人惊讶于这“丹药”惊人功效的那一瞬，离火门长老再度变招，强大的神识压制的黑衣人难以招架。¤Just as the man in black was amazed by the amazing effect of this pill, the fire gate elder changed his move again, and with powerful suppression of consciousness, the man in black could not resist.
岂止是离火门，在我的印象里，应该只有魔门才会使这种能够瞬间使实力暴涨的手段。¤It's not just the Fire Gate Sect, in my impression, only the Demon Sect would use such a method that can instantly boost one's strength.
只见两名金丹期修士正打得不可开交。一名身着离火服饰，一手火系神通施展的相当熟练；另一名则黑衣蒙面，所使用的功法也异常狠毒，不似善类。¤I see two cultivators at the Golden Core stage fighting fiercely. One is wearing a costume made of Heavenly Fire, and is quite proficient in the use of fire-based divine skills with one hand. The other is masked in black clothing, and their technique is exceptionally vicious, unlike that of a benevolent cultivator.
平日里这些魔门藏头露尾，既然今日被我撞上了，倒是正好看看他们来宁州到底有何企图。¤On ordinary days, these demonic sects hide themselves and reveal their true colors, but since I stumbled upon them today, it's an opportunity to see what they are up to in Ningzhou.
情形急转直下，面对黑衣人凛冽的攻势，杨长老眼看就要支撑不住了。¤As the situation abruptly turned for the worse, facing the fierce attacks of the black-clad figures, Elder Yang appeared on the brink of collapse.
还没来得及思考其中端倪，你便感觉脑内一阵刺痛，正对上杨长老冰冷的目光。¤Before you had a chance to ponder about the clues, you felt a sharp pain in your head and met the icy gaze of Elder Yang.
一道紫光闪过！只见那黑衣人抓住了一个破绽，一击将离火门修士腹部刺穿，血流不止。¤A purple light flashed by! The black-clothed man seized an opening and dealt a fatal blow, piercing the cultivator from the Fire Gate Sect's abdomen with one strike causing blood to flow incessantly.
果然，异变陡生。¤Sure enough, a sudden mutation occurred.
那人好像并没有发现你，在捡走黑衣人的储物袋后，便往远处飞驰而去。¤The person seemed to not have noticed you, after picking up the storage pouch from the person in black, they flew away into the distance.
好阴毒的手段？！杨长老怎会...¤What a sinister method! How could Elder Yang...
用这种手段提升的实力应该维持不了多久，你且跟上去，等他实力消退之后再作打算罢。¤The strength gained through these means can't be maintained for long. You should follow him and make plans after his strength diminishes.
可是风雨楼不是只会对声名狼藉之人动手？为何要对付离火门的人？¤However, isn't Storm Manor only supposed to target infamous individuals? Why would they go after members of Fire Gate Sect?
不远处传来了一阵灵力波动，似是有人争斗。你想弄清状况，便收敛气息，靠了过去。¤A wave of spirit energy fluctuations came from nearby, as if someone was fighting. You wanted to figure out the situation, so you restrained your breath and approached.
魔门？那就有意思了...¤Magic sect? That sounds interesting...
此人招式凌厉，贸然出手你也没有十足把握，只是待在原地静观其变。¤This person's moves are fierce, and you don't have a complete certainty to act rashly. Instead, you stay in place and watch in silence, waiting to see how the situation unfolds.
奇怪，这人使用的丹药招式都好生诡异，不像是出自离火门...¤Strange, the pill techniques this person is using are quite unusual. It doesn't seem like they're from the Fire Gate Sect...
还没来得及思考其中端倪，你便感觉脑内一阵刺痛，正对上那人冰冷的目光。¤Before you could even think about the clues, you feel a sharp pain in your brain and meet that person's cold gaze head-on.
好阴毒的手段？！杨长老怎会……¤What a sinister approach?! How could Elder Yang...
{FirstName}{gongzi}还有什么想了解的？¤Is there anything else {FirstName} would like to know, gongzi?
沾染魔气...这让我想起了数百年前覆灭的御剑门。¤Being tainted by magic qi... This reminds me of the downfall of the Imperial Sword Sect hundreds of years ago.
这些日子，我也曾听城内散修提起遇到过剑灵伤人的传闻。莫非是这御剑门的遗迹中出现了一些变故...¤These days, I have also heard rumours from wandering cultivators in the city about sword spirits injuring people. Could it be that some unexpected changes have occurred in the ruins of the Imperial Sword Sect...
御剑门...老仆倒也了解一二。不知{gongzi}是想打听何事？¤I understand a thing or two about the Imperial Sword Sect. May I ask what {gongzi} is inquiring about?
少主结丹后，便离家四处游历去了，至今未归。哎，希望少主能改改他那鲁莽的性子...¤After successfully forming his core, the young master left home to travel and has yet to return. Sigh, I hope he can change his rash nature...
你将{color=#d0380a}灵气消散的飞剑{/color}交给杨管家，并将自己在路上遭到剑灵袭击的事悉数告知。¤You hand over the {color=#d0380a}flying sword whose spirit has dissipated{/color} to Steward Yang and inform him of the sword spirit attack you encountered on the way.
原来如此...多谢杨管家指点。¤So that's how it is... Thank you, Elder Yang, for your guidance.
至于这白帝楼？¤As for this White Emperor Pavilion?
你若对此事感兴趣，我可以把这信物借给你。若是真调查出什么异变，你也可以尽快通知各大门派知晓。¤If you're interested in this matter, I can lend you this token. If there are any real anomalies discovered, you can quickly inform the sects to be aware.
挑选宗门首先应当考虑自身的{color=#d0380a}灵根属性{/color}，若所修神通功法与自身灵根契合，发挥起来自然得心应手。¤When choosing a sect, one should first consider their {color=#d0380a}spiritual root attributes{/color}. If the divine skills and techniques one practices are in harmony with their spiritual root, they will naturally be adept at utilizing them.
{gongzi}难得光临，不知有何贵干？{w}{w=0.5}¤Master Gongzi, it's rare to have you here. May I know the purpose of your visit?
{FirstName}{gongzi}若是想了解宁州的各大宗门，老夫倒是能略微指点你一二。¤{FirstName}{gongzi}, if you're interested in learning about the major sects in Ningzhou, I can offer some guidance.
此事有何难，交给我吧！¤What's so difficult about this? Leave it to me!
宗主平时都在白帝楼闭关，俗事就由老仆来打理。{w}{w=0.5}¤The sect leader usually secluded himself in the White Emperor Pavilion to cultivate, while daily affairs were handled by the old servant.{w}{w=0.5}
这...老仆倒是未曾听到过什么明确的结论。¤This... the old servant has never heard a clear conclusion before.
老管家，我对这次遇到的剑灵很感兴趣，可否借此信物一用？¤Old steward, I am very interested in the sword spirit encountered this time. Can I borrow this token for a use?
如今暗流涌动，时常有妖物伤人。可惜我倪家除了宗主再无高手，若是以前哪能容这帮妖孽胡作非为？¤Unfortunately, there are often monsters hurting people as the hidden dangers surge nowadays. The Ni family, except for the family head, doesn't have any other experts. If it were in the past, how could these evil monsters behave recklessly like this?
化尘教主修{color=#d0380a}土系{/color}功法，是宁州五大门派之一。往常化尘教每年都会开放宗门以招收弟子，但近年来似乎因为某些缘故谢绝接待外客。若想拜入此派，恐怕还得{color=#d0380a}等上几年{/color}¤The leader of the Shifting Sand Sect cultivates the technique of Earth Element and it is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou. Normally, the sect opens its doors every year to recruit disciples, but in recent years, it seems to have refused to receive outsiders due to certain reasons. If you want to join this sect, you may have to wait a few years.
御剑门的遗址正在九嶷山，不过为了防止凡人误入，这遗迹已经被宁州各大门派用迷阵以及禁制封印了起来。只有宁州各大家族与门派，带着御剑门信物，才能进入那里。¤The site of Imperial Sword Sect is located in Jiuyi Mountain, but to prevent mortals from entering, the site has been sealed with various arrays and restrictions by the major sects and families of Ningzhou. Only those with the Imperial Sword Sect token from the major families and sects of Ningzhou can enter.
倪旭欣一口答应替你向他爹打听御剑门相关之事，他留你在倪府{color=#d0380a}客房{/color}休息一日，待他了解情况后再来找你。¤Ni Xuxin immediately agreed to inquire about the situation of the Imperial Sword Sect from his father on your behalf. He arranged for you to stay in a guest room at Ni's Manor {color=#d0380a}for a day{/color}, until he could gather more information and return to speak with you.
哈哈哈哈，详细的，等你获得英杰会魁首，就知道啦。¤Hahaha, in detail, you will only know once you gain the championship in the young hero's tournament.
离火门主修{color=#d0380a}火系{/color}功法，是宁州五大门派之一。虽然他们从不拒绝散修拜入宗门，但因为恶劣的环境，也很少有人能够在那里坚持下来。¤The Fire Gate Sect specializes in {color=#d0380a}fire-based{/color} techniques and is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou. Although they do not reject wandering cultivators from joining their sect, few people are able to persevere there due to the harsh environment.
唉，为了英杰会这牌面，府内也只能再省一点。虽然如此，也不能坠了我武陵城倪家的威名。{w}{w=0.5}¤Alas, in order to maintain the prestige of the Young Hero's Tournament, we must cut back on expenses within the household. However, we cannot let our Ni Family's reputation in Wuling City be tarnished.
化尘教主修{color=#d0380a}土系{/color}功法，是宁州五大门派之一。化尘教如今已经恢复了正常，只要能通过化尘教的入门考核，便能拜入宗门。¤The leader of the Shifting Sand Sect cultivates earth-based techniques, and it is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou. The sect has now recovered to its normal state, and as long as one can pass the entry assessment, they can join the sect.
说来我们倪家与这御剑门也算有些渊源，当年御剑门覆灭后，我们曾收留过一部分幸存的御剑门外门弟子。¤Speaking of it, our Ni family has some connections with the Imperial Sword Sect. After the downfall of the sect, we once took in some surviving outer disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect.
竹山宗主修{color=#d0380a}木系{/color}功法，是宁州五大门派之一，传承悠久，据说已有数十万年的历史了。¤The Bamboo Mountain Sect specializes in {color=#d0380a}wood-element{/color} techniques. It is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou with a long-standing history dating back hundreds of thousands of years.
不过各宗门招收弟子也有不少特别的规矩，比如有的看重{color=#d0380a}资质{/color}，有的看重{color=#d0380a}悟性{/color}，更有星河剑派这种历来只招收{color=#d0380a}女性{/color}弟子的门派。若是不了解这些，难免会被拒之门外。¤However, each sect has its own special rules for accepting disciples. For example, some value {color=#d0380a}aptitude{/color}, some value {color=#d0380a}comprehension{/color}, and there are even sects like the Celestial River Sword Sect that only accept {color=#d0380a}female{/color} disciples. If you don't understand these rules, you may be rejected.
众人皆知白帝楼与武陵城。城自然出自我们倪家之手。¤Everyone knows about the White Emperor Pavilion and Wuling City. The city naturally came from the Ni family's hands.
想当年宗主是何等放浪不羁，如今却为了少爷和家族裹足不前。¤Back in the day, the sect leader was so unruly, but now he's being held back by the young master and the family.
{FirstName}阁下，何事？¤Lord {FirstName}, what brings you here?
不过你如今修为尚浅，还是等突破到{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}以后再去参与吧。¤However, your cultivation is still shallow, so wait until you breakthrough to the {color=#d0380a}Foundation Establishment{/color} stage before participating.
话未说完，一把爽朗的声音将你打断。¤The words were not finished, but a cheerful voice interrupted you.
你说这剑灵沾染了魔气，而我看这残剑的形状也与传闻中御剑门弟子的佩剑颇为相似。¤You said that this sword spirit was tainted with magic qi, but I also noticed that the shape of this broken sword bears a striking resemblance to the rumored weapons of the Imperial Sword Sect's disciples.
既然如此，那我改日......¤Since it's like this, I'll come back another day...
私通魔门？那这御剑门到底是和哪个魔门勾结？¤Colluding with the demonic sect? Then which demonic sect is the Imperial Sword Sect actually in cahoots with?
当年门庭若市，如今冷冷清清。兴衰轮回，即使是倪氏也不例外啊。{w}{w=0.5}¤Back in the day, it was bustling, but now it's desolate. The rise and fall of things never spare even the Ni family.
哈哈，此事稍后再谈，{FirstName}{xiongdi}这次前来所为何事？¤Haha, let's talk about this later. What brings you here this time, {FirstName} brothers?
至今倪府仍有不少人，算得上是当时那些御剑门弟子的后人。不过即便如此，也没有人真的清楚那御剑门勾结魔门的内幕。¤Until now, there are still many people in Ni's Manor who are considered the descendants of the disciples of the Imperial Sword Sect back then. However, even so, no one really knows the truth behind the Imperial Sword Sect's collusion with the Demonic Sect.
金虹剑派主修{color=#d0380a}金系{/color}功法，是宁州五大门派之一。每年金虹剑派都会举办仙资大会，招收外门弟子。但往往只有{color=#d0380a}悟性{/color}高于常人的天才才能被门派所选中。¤The Golden Rainbow Sword Sect is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou and specializes in {color=#d0380a}Golden}{/color} {color=#d0380a}Radiant Sword{/color} techniques. Every year, the sect holds the Immortal Talent Conference to recruit outer disciples. However, only geniuses with higher {color=#d0380a}comprehension{/color} than normal people are usually chosen by the sect.
杨管家，在下此番前来，是为了打听有关御剑门的传闻。¤Elder Yang, I have come here to inquire about rumours regarding the Imperial Sword Sect.
少主已经回府，这会儿...应该就在房里待着吧。¤The young master has already returned to the mansion, and now...he should be staying in his room.
没想到我们倪家会发生这种事...倒是让{gongzi}见笑了。¤I never expected something like this to happen to our Ni family... it's quite embarrassing for {gongzi} to witness.
星河剑派主修{color=#d0380a}水系{/color}功法，是宁州五大门派之一。每年星河剑派都会开启星河剑阵进行测试，招收外门弟子。但此门派似乎只招收资质优上的{color=#d0380a}女{/color}弟子。¤The Celestial River Sword Sect specializes in water-based techniques and is one of the five major sects in Ningzhou. Every year, they test their disciples in the Celestial River Sword Array and accept outer disciples. However, it seems that they only accept female disciples with exceptional aptitude.
嗯...此事倒也不算什么辛秘。这御剑门是数百年前因为{color=#d0380a}私通魔门{/color}，而被宁州五大门派一起围攻而亡的。战况之惨烈，当年在宁州可谓无人不知无人不晓。¤Hmm...this matter isn't exactly a secret. The Imperial Sword Sect was destroyed centuries ago because they {color=#d0380a}had colluded with the demonic sect.{/color} They were besieged by the five major sects of Ningzhou, and the battle was famously brutal. Everyone in Ningzhou knew about it.
这件事各大门派年长些的长老应该都是知情的，只不过近年来极少有人提起，你们这些年轻一辈的弟子不知情倒也正常。¤The sect's elder members should be aware of this matter, but it hasn't been brought up very often in recent years. It's understandable that younger disciples like yourselves wouldn't be aware of it.
恭迎少主历练回府，此行可有收获？¤Welcome back to the mansion after your training, did you gain anything from this trip?
这信物倒也不是什么珍贵之物...御剑门内那些珍贵的功法与法宝早在数百年前就已经被瓜分一空，我们倪家也已经很多年没有人去过那里了。¤This token is not a precious item... The precious techniques and artifacts of the Imperial Sword Sect were already divided up hundreds of years ago, and our Ni family hasn't visited there in many years.
细细想来，真的很羡慕家主能够拜入白帝门下啊~¤Upon careful consideration, I truly envy the house master being able to join the White Emperor's faction~
至于那封印遗迹所用的阵法...据老仆所知，是那云汐城{color=#d0380a}公孙家{/color}协助五大派布下的。此中玄妙，就不是老仆能说的清的了。¤As for the array used in the sealing ruins... according to the old servant, it was arranged with the help of the Gongsun family of Yun Shi City {color=#d0380a}{/color} and the five major sects. The intricacies of it are beyond the old servant's understanding.
少爷有时是急性子，{gongzi}与他同行还请多多海涵。{w}{w=0.5}¤The young master can be impatient at times, {gongzi} please bear with him on your journey.
只要能通过竹山宗外门擂台的考核，便能拜入宗门。这外门考核虽说不如英杰会竞争激烈，但每年能通过考核的人数也是百里出一。若想拜入竹山宗，还是要做足准备才行。¤As long as one passes the assessment at the outer arena of the Bamboo Mountain Sect, they can become a member of the sect. Although the competition in the outer arena assessment is not as fierce as the Young Hero's Tournament, only one out of every hundred can pass the assessment each year. If one wants to worship at the Bamboo Mountain Sect, they still need to be well-prepared.
终有一日，少爷需要担起家族的盛名。只盼他早些明白主人的苦心……{w}{w=0.5}¤One day, the young master will need to bear the honor of his family. May he understand the master's intentions early on... {w}{w=0.5}
少主筑基后，便离家四处游历去了，至今未归。哎，希望少主能改改他那鲁莽的性子...¤After building his foundation, the young master left home to travel around and has yet to return. Sigh, hopefully he can change his reckless nature...
杨管家能否告知，御剑门当年是为何会被灭门的，又为何连遗迹都要用阵法封印起来？¤Can Elder Yang inform us why the Imperial Sword Sect was exterminated in the past, and why the ruins had to be sealed with an array?
本想找倪家主打听御剑门之事，不想家主仍未出关，我还是改日再来叨扰吧。¤I intended to inquire about the Imperial Sword Sect from the Ni family head, but it seems the head is still in seclusion. I will come again another day to trouble them.
哈哈哈，这可是我辈剑修圣地之一，天地人三才剑法，人剑以己身之力御体，地剑以地煞之力砺剑，天剑以天罡之力振气，三剑相应生生不息，攻势既能连绵不绝也可一剑破敌，能创出此等剑法，白帝前辈当真九州剑修第一人！¤Hahaha, this is one of our sword cultivation holy lands, where the Three Forces of Heaven, Earth and Man Sword Art is practiced. The Human Sword uses one's own strength for body protection, the Earth Sword uses the power of the earth qi to sharpen the sword, and the Heavenly Sword uses the power of Tiangang to resonate the qi. The three swords, resonating with each other, have no end to their growth. The attack can be either continuous or one strike to defeat the enemy. It is truly a remarkable sword art created by Senior White Emperor, the number one sword cultivator in the Nine Provinces!
一晃这么些年，少爷长成主人那般仪表堂堂，老仆却老了。{w}{w=0.5}¤In just a few years, the young master had grown into a dignified gentleman, while the old servant had grown old.
说起这宁州的大派，当以竹山宗，离火门，金虹剑派，星河剑派和化尘教五大派为首，不知{FirstName}{gongzi}想先了解哪个门派？¤When it comes to the major sects in Ningzhou, the Bamboo Mountain Sect, Fire Gate Sect, Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, Celestial River Sword Sect, and Shifting Sand Sect are the leaders. I'm not sure which sect {FirstName} {gongzi} would like to learn about first?
这柄残剑的造型极为独特，如果我没有记错的话，这应该是数百年前覆灭的御剑门弟子配剑。¤The appearance of this broken sword is extremely unique. If I remember correctly, this should be the matching sword of a disciple from the Imperial Sword Sect, which was destroyed hundreds of years ago.
杨管家，{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你们莫非是在聊我的风流轶事？¤Yang steward, {FirstName}{xiongdi}, are you talking about my romantic stories?
届时，上界也会降下仙灵之气以供{$师祖}渡劫使用，¤At that time, the upper realm will also descend immortal Qi to provide {$师祖} with tribulation assistance.
等等，你究竟是用了何种敛息的法门，我竟丝毫气息都没有察觉？¤Wait a minute, what kind of restraint technique did you use that I couldn't even sense your presence?
雷劫本身便蕴含天道的力量，只有用同样蕴含天道的力量才能与之抗衡。¤The thunder kalpa inherently contains the power of the heavens, and only with the same power can one contend against it.
讲述者¤Narrator
你，可愿出手？¤Are you willing to make a move?
你二人又寒暄了几句。相互道别后，你身形一晃，便消失在了大殿内。¤You exchanged a few more pleasantries before parting ways. Your figure flickered and disappeared from the hall.
好说，{shidi}想了解什么，我定然倾囊相授。¤No problem, {junior fellow apprentice}. If you wish to learn anything, I will definitely impart my knowledge to you generously.
而寻常法术的力量与仙术、雷劫相比根本不在一个层次，就算最强的神通，在雷劫之下都显得脆弱不堪。¤Compared to immort. arts and thunder kalpas, the power of ordinary spells is not even on the same level. Even the strongest divine skill would appear fragile under the thunder kalpa's might.
既然{shidi}想问的都问完了，我倒有个问题想问{shidi}。¤Since {shidi} has asked all the questions he wanted to ask, I have a question to ask {shidi}.
掌门正在案前处理宗门事宜，全然没有发现你的到来。不得已，你只得故意制造出一些声响。¤The master is currently handling sect affairs at the desk and completely unaware of your arrival. You have no choice but to intentionally make some noise.
{$掌门}请讲。¤{$Master}, please speak.
而感悟天道与仙灵之气运用之法的地方，名曰太虚。¤The place where one enlightens oneself about the usage of the Heavenly Dao and the Qi of Immortals is called Taixu.
所以前辈们大都是在一处灵气充裕的僻静之地，而不是海上这种灵气紊乱的地方渡劫。¤Therefore, most seniors choose to undergo tribulation in a secluded land with abundance spiritual energy, rather than in a disordered spiritual energy place like the sea.
当倒计时结束，{$师祖}无论身处何地，天劫都会找上门来。¤When the countdown ends, {$Master} no matter where he may be, the Heavenly Tribulation will come knocking at his door.
那为何渡劫必须要使用仙术？¤Why must one use immort. art to undergo tribulation?
万物运行之法则，功法神通之根源，也皆为天道。¤The law of the operation of all things, the source of techniques and divine skills, are also all part of the Heavenly Dao.
听完此话，掌门直起了身，神情也缓和了下来。¤After hearing these words, the master stood up straight and his expression also relaxed.
听完此话，他释然而笑。¤After hearing this, he felt relieved and laughed.
这是自然。¤This is natural.
他笔直地看着你，而你自然也明白他的意思。气氛有些微妙。¤He looked straight at you, and you naturally understood his meaning. The atmosphere was somewhat subtle.
原来如此，此番劳烦{$掌门}了。¤I see, this time I'll trouble you, {$Master}.
灵气越充裕的地方，渡劫便越容易成功；反之，灵气越杂乱的地方，渡劫便越难。¤In places where spiritual energy is abundant, the tribulation is more likely to be successfully overcome. Conversely, in places where spiritual energy is chaotic and scarce, the tribulation becomes harder to overcome.
倘若宗门有难，我必然不会坐视不理。¤If my sect is in trouble, I will certainly not sit by and do nothing.
这个自然，{$师祖}想了解什么，在下定然知无不言。¤Master, if you wish to know something about nature, I will certainly tell you everything I know.
想必掌门也心知肚明，此次前来，我主要是想向掌门询问些事宜。¤I believe the Master is well aware of this, and the reason for my visit is mainly to inquire about some matters with the Master.
而每动用一次领域的力量，天劫便会提前一百年，所以大多数化神修士都不希望相互之间产生纠纷，而是选择闭关修炼，不争世事。¤As every use of the power of the domain brings forward the heavenly tribulation by a hundred years, most cultivators who have undergone deity transformation prefer to cultivate in isolation rather than engaging in disputes with one another, and focus solely on their cultivation.
在化神成功的那一刻，你应该便感应到了天劫的存在。¤At the moment of deity transformation, you should sense the presence of heavenly calamity.
见此情形，掌门瞬间便明白了事情的原委，便识趣地退至一旁，不再说话。¤Upon seeing this situation, the Master immediately understood the situation and cleverly stepped aside without saying a word.
仙术是调动仙灵之气所施展的法术。¤Immort. art is a spell cast by manipulating immortal spirit energy.
我派既然底蕴深厚，可有其他前辈留下的经验以供参考？¤Does our sect have any senior's experience left behind for reference, since we have such a profound background?
师兄。¤Senior brother.
你身形一晃，便消失在了大殿内。¤Your figure flickered and disappeared in the hall.
凡俗之礼就不必了，此次前来，只是想向掌门询问些事宜。¤You don't need to observe the rites of passage for ordinary matters. I came here to ask the master about some matters.
此前你二人早已相互有所感应，便无需多言，径直向大殿内走了过去。¤Before this, the two of you had already sensed each other, so there was no need for extra words as you walked straight towards the main hall.
老祖¤Old ancestor.
倘若此时，本宗、乃至整个宁州受到前所未有的威胁…¤If at this moment, our sect and even the entire Ningzhou faces unprecedented threats...
原来是{FirstName}{shidi}，此次前来所为何……¤So it's {FirstName} {shidi}. What brings you here this time...
天劫是一种考验。无论修为资质寿元如何，从化神成功的那一瞬间开始，便都只有千年时间准备与天劫抗衡。¤Tribulation is a test. Regardless of one's aptitude and lifespan, from the moment of successfully completing deity transformation, one only has a thousand years to prepare to face tribulation.
此外，渡劫之地的选择也是极为重要。¤In addition, the selection of the land for tribulation is also extremely important.
是，恭送{$师祖}。¤Yes, I bid farewell to {$Master}.
想必师兄也心知肚明，此次前来，我主要是想向掌门询问些事宜。¤I'm sure Senior Brother is already aware, but I mainly came to ask the Master some questions.
以{$师祖}目前的神识强度，想必已经能轻易穿过苍穹了吧？¤With {$Master Ancestor}'s current strength of soul sense, I believe they could easily pierce through the sky?
{FirstName}{shidi}，我已等候你多时了。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, I have been waiting for you for a long time.
仙术种类繁多，没有人能参悟所有仙术，每个人都只能在自己擅长的领域，寻找对抗天劫的方法。¤There are various types of immort. arts, and no one can comprehend them all. Each person can only look for methods to resist heavenly tribulations in their own domain of expertise.
如今{$师祖}已然是我派最强，倘若宗门有难，{$师祖}可愿出手相助？¤Now that {$师祖} is already the strongest in our sect, would {$师祖} be willing to help if our sect encounters any difficulties? Help is at hand.
？！是谁？¤Who is it?!
在看清那人样貌之后，掌门又变得恭敬起来。¤After recognizing the appearance of that person, the master became respectful again.
据史料记载，灵气越充裕的地方，渡劫便越容易成功；反之，灵气越杂乱的地方，渡劫便越难。¤According to historical records, the more abundant the spiritual energy, the easier it is to successfully pass through tribulation. Conversely, in places where spiritual energy is more chaotic, tribulation becomes more difficult.
多谢师兄，但这凡俗之礼就不必了。¤Thank you senior brother, but these rites of passage in the mortal world are unnecessary.
所以{$师祖}们大都是在一处灵气充裕的僻静之地，而不是海上这种灵气紊乱的地方渡劫。¤Therefore, most {$师祖} undergo tribulation in a secluded land with abundant spiritual energy, rather than in disorderly spiritual energy like on the sea.
原来如此，我都知道了。¤So that's how it is, I know it now.
掌门¤The Sect Leader
{shidi}，恭喜。¤{shidi}, congratulations.
掌门在大殿正门处望着你，俨然也是化神境界。¤The master stands at the main entrance of the hall, looking at you with a solemn expression, already reaching the level of deity transformation.
而这苍穹之外，皆为太虚。¤And beyond this sky, everything is Taixu.
这仙灵之气，必须要对天道有着极深的感悟才可调动，寻常招式根本毫无用武之地。¤This spiritual energy of immortality requires a deep enlightenment of the Heavenly Dao to activate, ordinary techniques are completely useless in this land.
化神修士可以轻易地在修炼的同时神游太虚，也只有在太虚之中，{$师祖}才能领悟天道，从而掌握渡劫所必须的仙术。¤Deity cultivators can easily roam the Taixu while cultivating, and only within Taixu can {$师祖} comprehend the Heavenly Dao and master the immortal arts necessary for tribulation.
你并没有解释，只是释放出了一丝化神的威压，他的神情便瞬间变的紧张起来。¤You did not explain anything, only released a bit of deity transformation's might suppression, causing his expression to become instantly tense.
而这一切，自然也被你看在眼里。¤But all of this, of course, was within your view.
首先还是要恭喜{FirstName}{shidi}。¤First of all, congratulations to {FirstName}{shidi}.
多谢掌门，但这凡俗之礼就不必了。¤Thank you, Master, but the rites of passage of the mortal world are unnecessary.
你不想浪费时间，身形一闪，便出现在大殿上。¤You don't want to waste time, your body flashes, and you appear in the grand hall.
他随即意识到了情况不对。¤He immediately realized that something was wrong.
哈哈哈哈，{shidi}能这么说，我便放心了。¤Hahaha, if {shidi} can say so, then I can rest assured.
你待会便知道了。¤You'll know in a bit.
就算仅窥得一丝天道，所领悟的仙术便能轻易超越世间任何神通。¤Even if only a glimpse of the Heavenly Dao is obtained, the enlightenment gained from immort. art can easily surpass any divine skill in the world.
天道便是诸条大道的尽头。所谓大道归一，所归之处即为天道。¤The Heavenly Dao is the ultimate destination of all grand paths. What is meant by the Great Dao returning to one is that its destination is the Heavenly Dao.
如今你已达到化神境界，宁州屈指可数的存在，再也没有人可以制约你。¤Now that you've reached the realm of deity transformation, you are one of the few beings in Ningzhou who reigns supreme. No one can restrain you anymore.
此等喜事，在下这就昭告天下，届时全宁州的能人志士都会前来恭贺{$师祖}！¤The happy news will be announced to all of Ningzhou, and all the talented people and heroes will come to congratulate {$师祖}!
如此，在下便放心了。¤In this way, I can rest assured.
若史料记载无误，{$师祖}应该已经感应到了天劫的存在。¤If the historical records are correct, {$Master} should have already sensed the presence of the heavenly calamity.
你看出掌门此番用意，只是释然一笑。¤You could see the master's intentions in this, but they just smiled in relief.
按照惯例，此等喜事应当昭告天下，让全宁州的能人志士前来道贺。¤According to tradition, such joyful events should be publicly announced to heaven and earth, allowing the capable people and talented individuals of Ningzhou to come and offer their congratulations.
一道人影突然出现在掌门身后，察觉到异样的掌门猛然转过身来。¤A figure suddenly appeared behind the master, and sensing something amiss, the master turned around abruptly.
你……？不对，{$师祖}竟已突破到化神境界？¤You...? No, {$Master} has already made a breakthrough into the realm of deity transformation?
掌门双手作揖，低下了头，俨然露出一副严肃的神情。¤The master bowed with both hands, lowered their head, and displayed a solemn expression.
既然{$师祖}已经满意了，在下却有个不情之请。¤Since my {$master} is already satisfied, I have an impolite request.
恭迎师祖，不知师祖出关所为何事？¤Welcome, Master. May I ask why have you left seclusion?
{$师祖}可大致理解为一种极为浓郁的灵气，但又有一些本质的区别。¤{$Shizhu} can be roughly understood as a very strong spiritual energy, but there are some essential differences.
嗯，今后传音符联系。¤Hmm, we'll use the sound talisman for future communication.
召集大家来此，是有一件大事宣布。¤Gathering everyone here is to announce an important matter.
{xiaozi}，这玩意儿你也乱吃啊？¤{xiaozi}, are you also eating this thing recklessly?
大护法怎的今日一反常态允许我们外门进入总坛？¤Why did the Protector allow us Outer Disciples to enter the Sect today, going against the norm?
（这不是就外面血池的阵法么。）¤(This is the formation outside the blood pool, isn't it?)
起！¤Rise!
别叫我玄蛊，重新认识一下本座古神教大护法玄骨。¤Don't call me Xuan Gu, let's get to know me again as the Great Protector Xuan Bone of the Ancient God Sect.
是啊，平日里总坛的人神神秘秘的防着我们。¤Yes, the people in the central temple always guard against us mysteriously.
哎呦，还有漏网之鱼？¤Ah yo, there are still fish that slipped through the net?
你要干什么？¤What are you going to do?
炼妖散已经有了突破性进展，妖化的问题已经得到了解决，品阶最高的炼妖散甚至可以辅助蜕凡化神的过程。¤Demon refining powder has made breakthrough progress, addressing the issue of demonic transformation. The highest class of demon refining powder can even assist in the process of transforming into a deity.
说完他着重看了一眼你背后的剑。¤After speaking, he glanced at the sword behind your back with emphasis.
（不对劲此地是个庞大的阵法，周围那些这些人都深陷阵中了。）¤(Something's not right. This place is a massive array, and all of these people around us are deeply trapped within it.)
不过今天我没空陪你玩，这炼妖散可是我临门一脚的关键呢。¤But I am not available to play with you today, the demon refining powder is the key to my success.
你也是一阵眩晕眼前一黑。¤You too feel a moment of dizziness and blackness before your eyes.
吼！！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Roar!!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
但是，如果人族修士的精血替代一部分兽血就可以中和这个部分。¤However, if the human cultivator's blood can replace a portion of the beast blood, it can neutralize this part.
掌门？？！！您不是已经突破失败兵解了吗？¤Master?!! Didn't you already fail your breakthrough to become a soldier?
不过还是需要诸位帮我一个小忙的，炼妖散仅以妖兽精血炼制受用者必会兽性大发，¤However, I still need a small favor from everyone. Demon refining powder is made by refining the blood of spirit beasts. Users will inevitably become wildly animalistic.
（作为宗门大殿，有阵法不是很正常么？）¤(As the great hall of the clan, it's only normal for there to be arrays, right?)
不愧是护法，这炼妖散真的进展神速。¤Truly worthy of being a protector, the demon refining powder is progressing at an astonishing speed.
又是你？¤It's you again?
一会我替你们破开此阵，今日能走几个算几个。¤I'll break this formation for you later. We'll leave as many as we can today.
呵呵，禁术？规矩？我辈修仙之人为何要被这条条框框所拘束？¤Hehe, forbidden techniques? Rules? Why should we, cultivators, be restrained by these constraints?
护法？？啊！！¤Protection laws?? Ah!!
阵内的玄古门弟子几近倒下，只有那名元婴修士率领两个金丹修士在苦苦支撑。¤The profound ancient sect disciples inside the formation were almost falling down, only the nascent soul cultivator leading two golden core cultivators were struggling to hold on.
只见玄骨一掐法诀。¤I only saw Xuan Gu pinch a spell.
看起来玄古门下弟子都聚集此地。¤It seems that the disciples of the Profound Ancient Sect have gathered in this place.
（此地阵法绝非聚灵防御之流，这里至少包含了一个杀阵一个困阵，而且另有阵法也很眼熟。）¤(This array formation is not just a simple defensive formation, it contains at least one killing formation and one trapping formation, and there is another formation that is also very familiar.)
掌门，这里就由您帮帮忙了。¤Master, I beg for your assistance here.
而且还是突然召集所有人前来，我闭关都打断了。¤Moreover, it was a sudden call for everyone to gather, interrupting my cultivation.
靠近大殿，就能感觉到人声鼎沸。¤Near the palace, one could feel the bustling sounds of people.
不错，还在你这。不过今天我没空陪你玩，这炼妖散可是我临门一脚的关键。¤Good, it's still with you. But I don't have time to play with you today. The Demon Refining Powder is the key for me at this crucial time.
走？这一人一个的魔神蛊你们走哪去啊？¤Go? With each of you only having one devil god beast, where do you think you can go?
嗯？护法，以修士精血入药向来是本门禁术你这不合规矩啊，恕我们爱莫能助。¤Hmm? Protector, it has always been a forbidden art in our sect to use cultivator's essence blood as medicine. Your actions are not in compliance with rules. We are sorry but we cannot assist you.
你先担心自己吧。¤First worry about yourself.
不过无所谓了，帮你们研究了这么多东西，你们也该回报我了。¤However, it doesn't matter. I've helped you research so much, and it's time for you to repay me.
掌门，这里就由您替我招待他了。¤Masters, please take care of entertaining him in my place.
经历了几天的调查，你感到有些疲惫。玄微剑仙的异样会与倪家家主迟迟未出关有联系吗？¤After several days of investigation, you feel a bit exhausted. Is there a connection between the unusual behavior of Sword Immortal Xuanwei and the Ni Family Patriarch's delay in coming out of seclusion?
一时想不出结果，你决定还是早些就寝等候倪旭欣的消息。¤Unable to come up with a solution for the time being, you decide to rest early and wait for Ni Xuxin's message.
哇！怎么突然开门，吓都要被你吓死啦！¤Wow! Why did you suddenly open the door? You scared me to death!
多谢{xiongdi}，如此我便先告退了。¤Thank you, {xiongdi}. With that, I will take my leave.
至今还未觅得天蝉灵叶的消息，我打算静下心寻找一番。¤So far I have not heard any news about the Skyscada leaf. I plan to calm down and search for it myself.
真不知道从何说起......我爹他确实出事了，始作俑者是二叔。¤I am not sure where to begin... but my father did indeed encounter a problem and it all started with my second uncle.
倪兄放心，我绝对守口如瓶。关于天蝉灵叶，若能打听到什么消息我定速来告知。¤Don't worry, Brother Ni, I'll keep my mouth shut. As for the Skyscada Leaf, if I hear any news I'll let you know right away.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}若是有天蝉灵叶的情报也可知会我一声。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}If there is any information about Skyscada Leaf, please inform me.。
进去说进去说，我站得腿都麻了。¤Go in and say it, my legs are numb from standing.
你第一次看到倪旭欣无精打采的样子，想来此事给了他不小的打击。¤The first time you saw Ni Xuxin's listless appearance, you could tell that something had dealt him a heavy blow.
长老与中草堂提及的那颗草药，就是给我爹疗伤用的。¤The herb mentioned by the elder and the herbal medicine store is the one used to heal my father's injuries.
推开门便看见门前精神不振的倪旭欣，大抵是一宿未眠才显得如此萎靡。¤Pushing open the door, I saw a dispirited Ni Xuxin standing in front of me. It seemed that he hadn't slept all night and was looking quite listless.
才一进屋倪旭欣便瘫在了椅子上，瓮声瓮气地道¤As soon as she entered the room, Ni Xuxin collapsed onto the chair, letting out a heavy sigh.
望{FirstName}{xiongdi}海涵，我能说的暂时只有这么多，还请{xiongdi}切莫对外声张。¤Dear {FirstName} brothers, please bear with me as I can only say so much for now. Please do not spread this outside.
我爹目前仍在昏迷中，能救他的大概只有天蝉灵叶了。¤My father is currently in a coma, and the only thing that can save him is most likely the Skyscada Leaf.
据长老们推测，二叔他应该是在寻找戮仙剑的下落。外界盛传此剑在我爹手中，看样子或许是真的......¤According to the elders' speculation, Second Uncle should be looking for the whereabouts of the Immortal Executing Sword. There are rumors that the sword is in my father's hands, and it appears to be true...
真不知道从何说起......¤I really don't know where to begin...
你们大眼瞪小眼地对视了一阵。¤You stared at each other with big eyes and small eyes for a while.
奇怪，怎么等了一上午还不见人影？不如我出去找他好了......¤Strange, I haven't seen anyone after waiting for a whole morning. I might as well go out and look for him...
所以在此提醒{FirstName}兄一句，若是前去千万谨慎小心，切莫丢了性命。¤Therefore, I hereby remind Brother {FirstName} to be cautious and careful if you go there, and do not lose your life.
中心地区汇集了各派精锐弟子，长老本来安排我前往，但现在我实在没有心思继续探险。¤The central region gathers the elite disciples of various sects. The elders originally arranged for me to go there, but now I simply don't have the heart to continue exploring.
没想到外围就这么危险，不仅要提防魔物，还要提防人心险恶。机缘虽好也要有命争夺，我看我还是找个安全点的地方混过剩下的日子算了.....¤I never imagined the outskirts would be so dangerous. Not only do I have to be wary of spirit beasts, but also of the treacherous hearts of people. Even with a good opportunity, I still have to fight for my life. I think I'll find a safer place to spend the rest of my days.
他的攻击方式十分独特，不禁让你联想到先前横死的那两位修士尸体上留下的奇怪伤口。¤His strike technique is extremely unique, which inevitably makes you associate it with the strange wounds left on the bodies of the two cultivators who died earlier.
不打了不打了，你们不过是仗着人多罢了，待我回头喊师兄来教训你们。¤I won't hit you anymore. You guys are just relying on numbers. Wait until I call my senior brother to teach you a lesson.
喂，我撑不住了，咱们分头跑！¤Hey, I can't hold on anymore, let's split up and run!
丢下这句话，他甩出一串符箓，趁着场面混乱，便化作一道血光遁走了。¤Leaving these words behind, he threw out a series of talismans, and took advantage of the chaos to turn into a streak of bloody light and escape.
“怎么专挑离火门的弟子下手，难不成是仇家报复？”¤How come you only target disciples from the Fire Gate Sect? Could it be revenge from enemies?
别提了，我方才见他一边走一边往怀里揣离火门内门弟子特制的储物袋，正纳闷他一个玄道宗弟子怎么会有我们宗门修士储物袋的时候就被他发现了。¤Don't mention it, just now I saw him walking and putting the Heavenly Fire Gate inner disciple's customized storage bag into his chest. I was wondering how a Xuan Dao Sect disciple like him could have our sect cultivators' storage bag, when he noticed me.
说他出身魔门只是想{color=#d0380a}诳你帮我{/color}。¤He's just saying he's from the demonic sect to {color=#d0380a}deceive you into helping me{/color}.
这玄道宗弟子功法稀奇古怪，出手又颇为狠辣。几招过后你便有些难以抵挡。只好借着身法灵活，闪出一个身位后拔腿就跑！¤This disciple of the Xuan Dao Sect possesses a unique and bizarre technique, and is also quite ruthless in combat. After a few moves, it becomes difficult to defend against them. You have no choice but to rely on your agility, dodge to a new position, and quickly flee from the fight!
别提了，我方才见他一边走一边往怀里揣竹山宗内门弟子特制的储物袋，正纳闷他一个玄道宗弟子怎么会有我们宗门修士储物袋的时候就被他发现了。¤Don't mention it, just now I saw him walking with a Bamboo Mountain Sect inner disciple's specially made storage pouch in his arms. I was wondering how a Xuan dao sect disciple like him could have our sect's cultivator storage pouch, when he noticed me.
刚才那修士为何抓着你不放？¤Why was that cultivator just now holding onto you and not letting go?
说来也巧，方才遇到的尸体也丢失了储物袋......莫非他弄丢的是那两具尸体身上的储物袋，如此大动干戈是为了销毁证据？¤Coincidentally, the storage pouch of the corpse that was encountered earlier was also lost... Could it be that the storage pouches on the bodies of those two corpses were the ones he lost? Is such a big uproar being made to destroy evidence?
“怎么专挑竹山宗的弟子下手，难不成是仇家报复？”¤Why do you always target disciples of Bamboo Mountain Sect? Could it be revenge against enemies?
云汐城东桃李花，飞来飞去落谁家......公孙季想说什么呢？¤In Yun Shi City's eastern peach blossom garden, the flowers fly around, but where do they land? What does Gongsun Ji want to say?
你展开纸条，上面只写着一句诗。¤You unfold the paper, and there is only one sentence of poetry written on it.
三派相辅相成才有我星河剑派今日辉煌，长老净是些嘴上不饶人的，实际关系倒也融洽。¤The three sects complement each other, only then can our Celestial River Sword Sect shine today. The elders are just people who talk a lot, but in reality, our relationships are harmonious.
金虹剑派素来与我派交好，也曾传出不少佳话。¤The Golden Rainbow Sword Sect has always had a good relationship with our sect, and there have been many good stories passed down between us.
嗯，上古时期龙鲲两族强者死伤无数，这尸蛟乃是尸变的龙族强者，嗜血凶蛮，一身龙族死气更是克制我龙族。¤dragon clan.
不好，这陨龙之地受力上浮至海面，现在就要沉没了，我们快撤出去。¤Bad news, the land of the fallen dragons is rising towards the sea level and is about to sink. We must evacuate quickly.
{vpunch=10,0.5}轰隆~~¤Boom~~
此番我大意之下被围攻于此，若非道友搭救必殒命于此。¤In this moment, I have been surrounded and attacked due to my carelessness. If it weren't for my fellow daoist's rescue, I would surely perish here.
没想到，这只畜生如此难缠。¤Unexpectedly, this beast is so difficult to deal with.
我初入此地，就遭到一元婴期的鲲偷袭，将其斩杀之后更是被四只尸蛟围攻，大意之下让道友见笑了。¤When I first entered this place, I was sneak attacked by a nascent soul stage Kun. After killing it, I was then surrounded and attacked by four corpse dragons. I apologize for my mistakes in the chaos, fellow daoist.
道友，一身修为如何被围困于此地。¤Fellow daoist, how has your cultivation been trapped in this place?
尸蛟？¤Corpse Dragon?
他们围攻我应该也是为了我身上的真龙精血。¤They surround and attack me for the true dragon essence blood in my body.
想打就打，想杀就杀，你在天魔眼内可不用顾忌什么情谊，毕竟性命重要。¤Fight if you want, kill if you want. You don't have to worry about any ties while in the Heavenly Devil's Eye, after all, your life is important.
大漠里的商路似是有利可图，以钱换命自然...去去去，别耽误我修炼。¤The trade route in the desert seems profitable, but risking one's life for money is not worth it... Go away, don't interrupt my cultivation.
{xiaozi}你现在声望过低，还是想其他办法进城吧。¤{xiaozi}, your reputation is currently too low. You may want to consider other ways to enter the city.
其实我还有些不情之请，只是这里人多眼杂，您可否移步到小女子的住处，放心酬劳定叫你满意。¤Actually, I have a few more requests, but there are too many people here. Can you please come to my residence? You can rest assured that you will be satisfied with the rewards.
道友，你把典籍带来了吗？¤Fellow Daoist, have you brought the scriptures?
我还没拿到东西。¤I haven't gotten the thing yet.
对方面露急切。¤The other side revealed an urgent expression.
那好吧，还是多谢道友了。¤Well then, thank you, fellow daoist.
对方转过身来，神色冷漠的看着你。¤The other party turned around and looked at you with an indifferent expression.
道友，借你皮囊一用。¤Fellow daoist, may I borrow your physical body for a moment.
你跟着她出了客栈，兜兜转转，来到了一处偏僻的房子。¤You followed her out of the inn, wandering around until you arrived at a secluded house.
{xiaozi}，小心了啊。¤{xiaozi}, be careful.
说罢她祭出一柄血红的仙剑，剑身散发出阵阵血气，向你袭来。¤After speaking, she summoned a blood-red fairy sword, emitting waves of bloody aura, and attacked towards you.
你默默退至人群之后，等候其余修士解决了那魔物后才进入地宫。¤You quietly stepped back into the crowd and waited for the other cultivators to deal with the spirit beast before entering the palace underground.
你默默退到一边，在这古迹内人人自危，还是先保存实力来的好。¤You silently stepped aside, in this ancient site everyone is in danger, it's better to save your strength first.
此人便是化尘教的{FirstName}长老吧，久闻大名，今日一见果真是修为通天。¤This person must be Elder {FirstName} from the Shifting Sand Sect. I have heard of your great reputation for a long time, and today I see that your cultivation is truly remarkable.
很快，人群中又走出几人，你认出其中两人是来自离火门的苍坤长老和金虹剑派的明河剑仙。¤Soon, a few more people walked out of the crowd, and you recognized two of them as Elder Cang Kun from the Fire Gate Sect and Swordmaster Radiant River from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
人群中又走出几人，你认出其中两人是来自离火门的苍坤长老和同门的明河剑仙。¤Several more people walked out of the crowd, and you recognized two of them as Elder Cang Kun and Swordmaster Radiant River from the Fire Gate Sect.
挑战守护兽的间隙，一阵阵修士交谈落入你耳中。虽然听不太真切，但不难从只言片语中听出对你的赞叹之意...¤During the interval between challenges against the beast protector, the cultivators' chats drifted into your ears. Although you couldn't hear everything clearly, it was not difficult to pick up the compliments they were saying about you from their fragments of words...
啊啊啊啊！！！¤Ah ah ah ah!!!
很快，人群中又走出几人，你认出其中两人是来自离火门的苍坤长老和同门的明河剑仙。¤Soon, a few more people walked out of the crowd, and you recognized two of them as Elder Cang Kun and Swordmaster Radiant River from the Fire Gate Sect.
你当即朝着发出惨叫声的方向望去，正对上一只沾满鲜血的锐利触肢。¤You immediately looked towards the direction of the screaming, only to come face to face with a sharp appendage soaked in fresh blood.
你们脚下的大地猛地开始震颤起来，伴着令人牙酸的石块摩擦声，一扇通往地下的石门缓缓开启。¤The ground beneath your feet suddenly began to tremble, accompanied by the grating sound of irritatingly rough stones, as a stone door leading underground slowly opened.
在公孙季的指引下，众人将兽像激活。这些守护兽皆有不弱于元婴期修士的实力，好在数位高手一齐出手，又有阵法大师居中指挥，总算是将五兽一一击破...¤Under the guidance of Gongsun Ji, the group activated the beast sculptures. These beast protectors were all powerful, no weaker than cultivators in the Nascent Soul stage. Fortunately, with the combined efforts of skilled individuals and the guidance of an array master, they were able to defeat the five beasts one by one...
此人便是金虹剑派的{FirstName}长老吧，久闻大名，今日一见果真是修为通天。¤This person is {FirstName}, an elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect. I have heard of your name for a long time, and today I finally see that your cultivation is truly outstanding.
这座被封印许久的地宫果然诡异，幸好方才你没有贸然行事。这魔物周围的修士似乎都陷入了混乱中，看来它的能力不容小觑，你决定...¤This sealed underground palace is indeed eerie. Thankfully, you didn't act recklessly earlier. The cultivators around this spirit beast seem to have fallen into chaos. It looks like its power shouldn't be underestimated. You decide...
人群中又走出几人，你认出其中两人是来自同门的苍坤长老和金虹剑派的明河剑仙。¤A few more people walked out of the crowd, and you recognized that two of them were the elder Cang Kun and the Swordmaster Radiant River from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
古迹中危机重重，机缘往往与危险并存，谨慎的你决定先看看前方那些修士下场如何再行动。¤In ancient ruins, danger is often accompanied by opportunity. As a cautious cultivator, you decide to observe the fate of the fellow cultivators ahead before taking action.
此人便是离火门的{FirstName}长老吧，久闻大名，今日一见果真是修为通天。¤This person must be the Elder {FirstName} of the Fire Gate Sect. I have heard of his great reputation, and now that I have finally met him, it is clear that his cultivation is truly remarkable.
此人便是竹山宗的{FirstName}长老吧，久闻大名，今日一见果真是修为通天。¤This person must be {FirstName}, the elder of the Bamboo Mountain Sect. I have heard of your reputation for a long time and today I finally see that your cultivation is truly remarkable.
待门完全打开，一群胆子稍大的修士便蜂拥而出，一时间灵力涌动，一道道光彩争先恐后地窜进门内。毕竟僧多肉少，这门内若是存在什么宝物，定然是先到者得。你决定...¤Once the door was fully opened, a group of cultivators with slightly more courage swarmed out and their spiritual power surged. One after another, they competed to rush into the door. After all, there were few monks and a lot of flesh, so if there was any treasure inside the door, whoever arrived first would surely get it. You decide...
这机关兽少说也可媲美元婴初期的修士，能以一人之力连胜五场，实在是了不起。¤This mechanical beast is no less powerful than a cultivator in the early nascent soul stage, able to win five consecutive battles with its own strength. Truly impressive.
此人便是宁州有名的散修{FirstName}{LastName}吧，久闻大名，今日一见果真是修为通天。¤This person must be the famous wandering cultivator {FirstName}{LastName} of Ningzhou. I’ve heard about them for a long time and seeing them today truly shows their exceptional cultivation.
很快，人群中又走出几人，你认出其中两人是来自同门的苍坤长老和金虹剑派的明河剑仙。¤Soon, a few more people walked out of the crowd, and you recognized two of them as Elder Cang Kun from the same sect and Swordmaster Radiant River from the Golden Rainbow Sword Faction.
人群中又走出几人，你认出其中两人是来自离火门的苍坤长老和金虹剑派的明河剑仙。¤A few more people walked out from the crowd, and you recognized two of them Elder Cangkun from the Fire Gate Sect and Swordmaster Radiant River from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
{vpunch=10,0.5}轰隆隆隆隆隆隆¤Boom boom boom boom boom!
在你们破阵的过程中，越来越多的人向此地赶来，其中有不少都是各门派中小有名望的长老，你也见到了倪旭欣，百里奇等熟悉的面孔。¤During the process of breaking formation, more and more people are rushing to this place. Many of them are elders with some well-known status from various sects. You also saw familiar faces such as Ni Xuxin, Baili Qi, and others.
你一个箭步上前，跃进了门内。只见一片刀光剑影，纷乱的术法与凌厉的煞气混作一团。正当疑惑之时，一股强劲的灵气流袭来，你一时不察，被打了个正着。¤You take a step forward and leap into the door. You see a flurry of swords and spells mixed together. Just as you're wondering what's going on, a strong spiritual energy hits you and you're caught off guard, taking a direct hit.
此人便是星河剑派的{FirstName}长老吧，久闻大名，今日一见果真是修为通天。¤This person must be the Elder {FirstName} of the Celestial River Sword Sect. I have heard of his name for a long time and today I finally see that his cultivation is truly remarkable.
在公孙季的指引下，你同众人一起将兽像激活。这些守护兽皆有不弱于元婴期修士的实力，好在数位高手一齐出手，又有阵法大师居中指挥，总算是将五兽一一击破...¤Under the guidance of Gongsun Ji, you and the others activated the beast statues. These beast protectors all had strength no weaker than a nascent soul cultivator. Fortunately, with several skilled individuals joining forces and a master of arrays directing them, they were able to break through the defenses of the five beasts one by one...
{FirstName}{xiongdi}别客气了，公孙家可是宁州公认的阵道第一，他说我们厉害那肯定是厉害了。\n¤{FirstName}, my {xiongdi}, don't be polite. The Gongsun family is known as the number one Array Dao family in Ningzhou. If they say we're powerful, then we must be powerful.
你和倪旭欣尽力配合出手，但由于默契太差，他在你之前就击碎了阵法核心，因此没有成功破阵。¤You and Ni Xuxin tried your best to coordinate your attacks, but due to poor teamwork, he broke the core of the array before you, causing the formation to remain unbroken.
你和倪旭欣尽力配合出手，但由于默契太差，你在他之前就击碎了阵法核心，因此没有成功破阵。¤You and Ni Xuxin tried your best to cooperate and make a move, but due to poor coordination, you shattered the core of the array before he could, thus failing to break the formation.
公孙兄谬赞了，我也是在倪兄的提醒下才能猜到破阵方法。¤Brother Gongsun is too kind in his praise. It was only with Brother Ni's reminder that I was able to guess the method for breaking formation.
你尝试了几次后选择了放弃，正当你和倪旭欣疗伤时，有其他修士配合击碎了人阵眼核心。¤After trying several times, you decided to give up. While you and Ni Xuxin were healing your injuries, other cultivators cooperated to break the core of the array.
没想到我倪某人也有成为阵道大师的潜质哈哈哈。¤I never thought that I, Ni, also had the potential to become a master of array dao. Hahaha.
在你和倪旭欣合力之下，两个核心几乎同时被击破。这一次，核心只是闪耀了几次便碎裂开来。¤With your and Ni Xuxin's combined efforts, the two cores were almost simultaneously destroyed. This time, the cores only flickered a few times before shattering apart.
你和倪旭欣经过简单商量后，觉得还是交换一下对手比较好。¤After a brief discussion with Ni Xuxin, you both agreed that it would be better to switch opponents.
你摇了摇头，先行离开了。公孙季也微笑的跟在后面，只留下倪旭欣还在原地大笑。¤You shook your head and left first. Gongsun Ji followed behind with a smile, leaving only Ni Xuxin still laughing in the same spot.
啊，终于解决了，这个涵虚仙人的阵法真是复杂，可累死我了。¤Ah, finally solved it. This Xian's array formation is really complex, it almost tired me to death.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我已经找到窍门了，我们两个必须同时破阵！让我们再试一次。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, I have found the trick, we must break formation together! Let's try again.
这两个阵眼相辅相生，涵虚的手段实属高明。只是没想到两位竟能这么快想到破阵之法，换做是在下恐怕也要琢磨许久。¤These two formations complement each other and create a symbiotic relationship. The method of containing emptiness is truly ingenious. However, I didn't expect both of you to think of breaking the formation so quickly. If it were me, I would have had to ponder for a long time.
终于...一切都结束了...¤Finally... everything has come to an end...
不...我不甘心...¤No...I am not willing to accept this...
一声巨响后，玄骨化作一团血雾，什么也没有留下...¤After a loud noise, the Xuanbone turned into a bloody mist, leaving nothing behind...
千年修为，毁于一旦...但这是他自己种下的因，也怪不得旁人。¤Thousand years of cultivation, destroyed in an instant... But this is a consequence he brought upon himself, no one else can be blamed.
玄骨的眼神中闪过一丝决绝，身体突然剧烈的膨胀起来。¤The determination flashed in Xuangut's eyes as his body suddenly expanded violently.
{size=31}小心，他要自爆了！{/size}¤{size=31}Be careful, he's going to self-destruct!{/size}
快退！¤Quickly retreat!
此番值守需要2年时间，{shidi}你可准备好了？¤This assignment will require 2 years of time, are you ready for it {shidi}?
玄冥海上如今遍布着这种拘魂阵，我看你们最好还是不要在这里逗留了。¤On the deep black sea, there are soul detaining formations everywhere now. I suggest you don't linger here.
我只知道万魂殿长老有一把万魂幡，每过一段时间便会过来收取一次魂魄。其他的便不得而知了。¤I only know that the elder of the Ten Thousand Soul Pavilion has a Ten Thousand Soul Banner and will come to collect souls periodically. As for the rest, I don't know.
道友有所不知，如今想在阴冥海找到神阴石已经越来越难了。若非为了此物，我们也不至于铤而走险来这玄冥海上探索。¤Fellow daoist, you may not know this, but it's becoming increasingly difficult to find the shenyin stone in the deep yin sea. If it weren't for this item, we wouldn't have risked coming to explore the underworld.
解决完万魂殿后，你向被解救出的灵魂体飞去。¤After resolving the Ten Thousand Souls Temple, you flew towards the rescued soul bodies.
还有一事，你可有听到万魂殿的消息？¤By the way, have you heard any news from the Ten Thousand Soul Palace?
若是在此战至领域全开，于你于我皆无好处，不如各退一步。¤If we were to activate our domains in this battle, neither you nor I would benefit. It's better for us to step back.
吾辈既已触及天道，本只愿静心潜修不想插手世事。但{$shili}有难，也只得出面了。¤Since we have already touched upon the Heavenly Dao, our only wish is to calmly cultivate and not interfere with worldly affairs. But if {$shili} is in trouble, we have no choice but to step forward.
那又如何？我可不惧你！¤So what? I'm not afraid of you!
在他的示意下，竹山宗掌门识趣地派人带你前往藏经阁。¤At his gesture, the Bamboo Mountain Sect headmaster obediently sent someone to escort you to the Hidden Manual Pavilion.
吾辈既已触及天道，本只愿静心潜修不想插手世事。但道友以大欺小，我也只有出面干预一番了。¤The given text appears to be a situation where the speaker has acquired a substantial level of mastery in their skills, having reached the realm of the heavens. The speaker hoped to practice in seclusion without being distracted by mundane life; but unfortunately, their fellow daoist has been wronging smaller entities. Therefore, they are compelled to come out of their seclusion and intervene.
那竹山宗化神修士隐有愠色，但终究还是平复下来。¤The cultivator of the Bamboo Mountain Sect, who had undergone deity transformation, had a hidden displeasure, but ultimately managed to calm himself down.
小友能破我护宗大阵，确实有些能耐，老朽我一是惜才，二是不愿插手晚辈之争。¤My young friend, you were able to break through our clan's great formation. It seems you possess some skill. As an elder, I value talented individuals and do not wish to interfere with disputes among the younger generation.
原来竹山宗有隐世化神存在，我还当这宗派不过如此呢。¤Originally, the Bamboo Mountain Sect has a hidden Deity Transformation cultivator. I underestimated this sect.
不如{$称呼}就此离去，之前的战斗也不过是几名不争气的弟子在切磋中被打伤，老朽不再过多追究。¤Why don't we leave it at that, {$称呼}? The previous combat was only a sparring match where a few incompetent disciples were injured. I won't inquire further about it.
宗门中神通功法秘籍任由道友拿去，作为交换，你今日不得再伤我竹山宗任何一人。¤In the sect, fellow daoists are free to take technique manuals and divine skills as they please. As a trade, you are not allowed to harm any member of the Bamboo Mountain Sect from today onwards.
只是技不如人，不敢开口而已。¤Just my skills are not yet as good as others', so I dare not speak up.
没想到{$shili}还有如此强者，倒还让我长眼了。看前辈这架势，莫不是想出手为这元婴修士报仇？¤I never expected to encounter such a strong cultivator like {$shili}, my eyes have truly been opened. Judging by the senior's demeanor, could it be that they plan to take action in avenging this nascent soul cultivator?
你明明...啊！¤You clearly... ah!
你转头向在地上痛苦呻吟的魔修。¤You turned your head towards the demon cultivator lying on the ground and groaning in pain.
然后呢？¤And then?
不，我应该谢谢你，刚才那种情形下若不是有你在一旁震慑他，只怕我已是被炼作那魂幡中的恶鬼了。¤No, I should thank you. If it wasn't for you deterring him earlier, I'm afraid I would've been turned into a demon in that soul flag.
但看他的神通路数，应该不是我们要找的血剑宫魔修，此事只怕没我们想的简单。¤But judging from his divine skill techniques, he's probably not the demonic cultivator from Blood Sword Palace that we're looking for. This matter may not be as easy as we anticipated.
以他们的习惯，遇到冒用血剑宫名头的修士，先诛其人，再灭其门，辱其先祖，断其传承。现在四项俱成，只怕是回雍州复命去了。¤According to their customs, when encountering cultivators who falsely use the name of the Blood Sword Palace, they must first kill the person, then destroy their sect, humiliate their ancestors, and sever their legacy. All four have now been accomplished, so it's likely they have returned to Yongzhou to report.
可恶，竟让他跑了。¤Damn it, he actually got away.
唉，其实是这样的。这青羽门的副门主在其他州假扮血剑宫修士截杀修士赚取灵石、法宝及天材地宝等物事。要知血剑宫这名头是好用，但其中修士也是对这些假借名头的修士厌恶至极。¤Well, it's like this. The vice sect master of Qingyumen pretended to be a cultivator from Blood Sword Palace in other states and intercepted other cultivators to earn spirit stones, artifacts, and precious materials. It's true that using the name of Blood Sword Palace is effective, but other cultivators despise those who use this name without true affiliation.
但最近不是急着淬炼我这刚炼成的魂幡么，我又不方便自己出手暴露身份，就...¤But recently I was in a hurry to refine my newly refined soul banner, and I am not convenient to reveal my identity by myself, so...
谢...谢谢，我这就滚。¤Thank you...thank you, I'll leave now.
此番多谢{FirstName}{$NickName}帮忙了，一点小礼不成敬意。¤Thank you, {FirstName}{$NickName}, for your help this time. Please accept this small gift as a token of my appreciation.
我还听说，诛杀冒用血剑宫名头的修士在宫内是会有大量奖励的。¤I have also heard that there are great rewards for killing cultivators who use the name of Blood Sword Palace within the palace.
那我便先行回门派复命了。¤Then I will first return to the sect to report.
好在这一击有些仓促，只让你的神魂如受千针万刺般痛苦，乃至短暂地失去了思考的能力。¤Luckily, this attack was somewhat rushed, only causing your soul to be in tremendous pain, as if being pricked by thousands of needles, and even briefly losing your ability to think.
先不说这些，我们还是审问这魔修一番吧。¤Putting that aside for now, let's interrogate this demonic cultivator.
嗯，不过也算是有些收获。我只需将收集到的情报上报门派即可，后续估计要交给风雨楼了。¤Well, there was some gain from it. All I need to do is report the collected information to the sect, and the rest will probably be handed over to Storm Manor.
咳，我只是把消息告诉血剑宫修士了而已，这...这种拦路截杀的修士，不...不是人人得而诛之么？¤Ahem, I just informed the cultivators of Blood Sword Palace about the interception. These cultivators who block and attack others on the road, aren't they supposed to be eliminated by everyone?
可惜你是个邪修，受死吧！¤Unfortunately, you are a demonic cultivator. Die!
只可惜没能帮上更多的忙。¤Unfortunately, I couldn't be of more help.
{FirstName}{$NickName}的实力真是让在下大开眼界，原只道金丹修士在战斗时打不过还是能跑的，{FirstName}{$NickName}却能生擒金丹修士，只怕击杀他更是轻而易举。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}'s strength really opened my eyes. I used to think that even though golden core cultivators might not be able to win in combat, they could still escape. But {FirstName}{$NickName} was able to capture a golden core cultivator alive. I'm afraid killing them would be even easier.
对此等魔修确实无需手软。¤There is no need to go easy on these demonic cultivators.
不用客气。\n¤You don't have to be polite.
哦？那这拘魂阵怎么说？我可听说是你提前设下的。¤Oh? So how do you explain the soul detaining formation? I heard it was set up by you in advance.
抱歉，是我...¤Sorry, it was me...
那魔修也深知在{$NpcName}的掩护下，他难以对你补上致命一击，所以也不作试探，而是御起遁术化作一道血光远去。¤The demonic cultivator also knew that with the cover of {$NpcName}, it was difficult for him to land a fatal blow on you. So instead of testing the waters, he mobilized his mobility technique and turned into a red light, disappearing into the distance.
只一招，我就看穿他是在假扮血剑宫修士。将之击败后，觉得此人很是有趣，也就没对他如何。只是每隔一段时间便敲诈他一番。¤With just one move, I could tell that he was impersonating a cultivator from the Blood Sword Palace. After defeating him, I found him to be quite interesting and didn't do anything to him. However, every once in a while, I would extort him a bit.
你知道的还挺多。¤You know quite a lot.
别...我说，我说！¤Wait...I'll talk, I'll talk!
好，你走吧。¤Okay, you can go.
{$NpcName}则是守护在你身旁，一时忘了阻止他离开。待你从神魂受到攻击的痛苦中解脱出来时，那魔修早已不知去向。¤{$NpcName} was guarding by your side but forgot to stop him from leaving. By the time you were freed from the pain of the soul strike, the demonic cultivator had already disappeared without a trace.
不知是出于顾忌在一旁盯着他的{$NpcId}，还是已然灵气枯竭，这魔修在硬结一记躲不开的攻击神通后，出现了短暂的停顿。¤Whether it was due to the presence of {$NpcId} watching him from the side or his spiritual energy being depleted, the demonic cultivator paused briefly after being struck by an unavoidable divine skill.
这...这...这是我提前知道有人要上门来寻仇，对，就是这样！¤This...this...I knew someone would come for revenge ahead of time, yes, that's right!
你一时疏忽之下，竟被这魔修抢中破绽，一记神识攻击直入你头部。¤Due to a moment of carelessness, you were caught off guard by this demonic cultivator, and a strike of soul sense attack hit you directly in the head.
饶...饶我一命，我...我什么都说！¤Spare... spare my life, I... I'll say anything!
那得看你表现了。说说是怎么回事吧。¤That depends on your performance. Can you explain what happened?
魂幡炼成后就想设法在宁州弄些修士魂魄淬炼一番，但门派之命我又不敢违抗，只能在其他修士仇杀或争斗天材地宝后捡捡漏。¤After refining the Soul Banner, I wanted to find a way to refine the souls of some cultivators in Ningzhou. But I cannot disobey the commands of the sect, so I can only pick up the scraps after other cultivators fight or kill for resources.
如今确定了事情经过，我的任务也算是完成了，多谢。¤Now that the sequence of events has been confirmed, my quest can be considered complete. Thank you.
他不是我的目标，就由{FirstName}{$NickName}定夺吧。¤He is not my target, so let {FirstName}{$NickName} decide.
你是想说这门派的覆灭与你无关？¤Do you mean to say that the destruction of this sect has nothing to do with you?
可惜，可惜。¤Unfortunately, unfortunately.
那血剑宫修士如今去哪了？¤Where did the cultivator from Blood Sword Palace go now?
这副门主又恰巧截杀到我头上。我虽不是同阶血剑宫修士的对手，但也不至于听到名号就闻风而逃。¤This sect leader happened to intercept me. Although I am not a match for cultivators of the same level as the Blood Sword Palace, I am not someone who would flee at the mention of their name.
那...是不是...能放我一条生路？我...我保证这就离开宁州，永不再回。¤Then... Could you give me a way out? I... I promise to leave Ningzhou and never come back.
就把他卖给血剑宫修士了？¤Did you just sell him to a cultivator from Blood Sword Palace?
这魔修一边说着，像是担心你们反悔，还一边把自己的储物袋掏了出来，交到你手上。而后才忍着疼痛御起遁术，化作一道血光迅速远去。¤As the demonic cultivator spoke, as if afraid you would change your mind, he pulled out his storage pouch and handed it to you. Then, enduring the pain, he used mobility technique to transform into a blood-red light and quickly disappeared.
魔教妖人手段诡异，若不是有{FirstName}{$NickName}陪同，{$ZaiXia}更不是那魔修对手了。¤The demonic techniques of the demon cultists are mysterious and strange. If it weren't for {FirstName}{$NickName} accompanying me, I wouldn't stand a chance against those demonic cultivators.
{$NpcId}过奖了，只是这魔修实力不济而已。¤You flatter me, {$NpcId}. It's just that this demonic cultivator is weak.
唔...就由{FirstName}{$NickName}拿主意吧。¤Hmm...let {FirstName}{$NickName} decide.
你虽可恶，但此事确实应该算在那血剑宫修士头上，我倒是可以放你一马。{$NpcId}你怎么看？¤Although you are despicable, this matter should indeed be accounted for the cultivator from Blood Sword Palace. I can let you off the hook. What do you think, {$NpcId}?
{$NpcId}见此情形更是早已放松警惕，在一旁为你鼓掌叫好。¤{$NpcId} had already relaxed their guard upon seeing this situation, and was clapping and cheering for you on the side.
哼，我看你是想吃点苦头才会说了。¤Hmph, I think you want to suffer a bit before you speak.
可...可惜什么？¤Unfortunately...what a pity?
是...是啊，这门派上下几十位修士可没一个是我杀的。¤Yes...yes, none of the cultivators in this sect were killed by me.
我本是它州修士，奉命来宁州打探情报。但在机缘巧合之下获得了一些炼制魂幡的绝佳材料。¤I was originally a cultivator in Atzhou, sent to Ningzhou to gather intelligence. But by a stroke of luck, I gained some excellent materials for refining soul banners.
{$ZaiXia}便先回门派复命了。¤{$ZaiXia}I will first return to the sect to report.。
呼...这秘术还真是不可小觑。¤Sigh...this secret art is truly not to be underestimated.
琚运琦突破了你们的围攻，化作一道紫黑色的遁光，消失不见了。¤Ju Yunqi has broken through your siege, transforming into a purple-black escape light and disappeared.
厉害...这秘术还真是不可小觑。¤Impressive...this secret art is truly not to be underestimated.
{size=31}白帝楼以后就要交给你们这些小崽子来打理了。尤其是那个倪什么欣的，想想就让老夫头大。{/size}¤{size=31}After this, the White Emperor Pavilion will be left to you little brats to take care of. Especially that Ni something Xin, just thinking about him gives me a headache.{/size}
现在人已经去了，那白帝楼也只好交给你们这些小崽子来打理了，希望那倪什么欣的不要...¤Now that the person has left, the White Emperor Pavilion can only be handed over to you little brats to take care of. Hopefully, that Ni whatever Xin won't...
没想到凌老儿渡劫竟有如此多的劫难，实在是……¤I never expected that Elder Ling's tribulation would have so many difficulties, it's truly...
{size=31}看到凌老儿能成功飞升，真是替他高兴啊。{/size}¤{size=31}Seeing Ling Lao'er successfully ascend, I am truly happy for him. {/size}
公孙季正微笑着站在你的禁制前，仿若你的禁制并不存在。他的身后站着各大势力的金丹修士，看来都是为了涵虚仙府而来的。只不过有些修士衣衫稍有不整，显然是之前在战斗中吃了点亏。¤Gongsun Ji stood before your barriers, smiling as if they didn't exist. Behind him were golden core cultivators from various factions, all seemingly there for Huanxu Palace. Some of the cultivators had tattered clothing, clearly having suffered losses in the previous combat.
若是这次出了什么意外，我确实没有把握保护他的周全。¤If there is any accident this time, I really don't have the confidence to fully protect him.
师兄其实是因为担心倪兄，所以才不让他去的吧？¤Senior brother actually didn't let Ni Brother go because he was worried about him, right?
离开武陵城后，你二人向着西方飞去。¤After departing from Wuling City, the two of you flew towards the west.
新学了那么多招式，正好先拿这工具人练练手。¤Now that I've learned so many new techniques, I'll use this repair man as practice.
此地是一个{$Var1}的洞窟，看来盘踞这里的兽王八成是{$Var2}。¤This place is a {$Var1} cave, it seems that the Beast King who rules over here is most likely a {$Var2}.
吼！！！！¤Roar!!!!
哼，受死！¤Hmph, perish!
这沂山双鬼平日里纵容手下四处杀人夺宝，可算是宁州的一大祸害，如今除了他们二人也算是功德一件。¤The Mt. Yi Twin Ghosts are notorious for allowing their subordinates to kill and steal treasures throughout Ningzhou, making them a major threat to the region. However, their capture can be seen as a positive development.
风力的变化应该是有规律的，你猜测，下一次风力减弱的时间应当是...？¤The change in wind power should be regular, can you guess when the next weakening of the wind will occur...?
看来这里曾经是这位前辈的清修之地，你决定...？¤It appears that this was once the senior's land of spiritual cultivation. What is your decision...?
既然我受了前辈传承，也应当算前辈的半个弟子了吧。¤Since I have received the teachings of the senior, I should be considered as half a disciple of the senior.
你后退几步，找了个地方盘腿坐下，一边观察，一边等待起来。¤You stepped back a few steps, found a place to sit cross-legged, and watched while waiting.
你一口气冲过裂缝，发现自己已经来到了一个地下溶洞之中。身后隐约还能听到呼啸的风声，而洞窟中却安静的很，不到百米的距离却仿佛进入了另外一个世界。¤You rush through the crack and find yourself in an underground cave. You can still hear the howling wind behind you, but the cave is quiet. Within a distance of less than a hundred meters, it feels like you've entered another world.
这地下溶洞本来应该是一片漆黑，但远处却隐隐能够看到一丝亮光。¤This underground cave should have been pitch-black, but in the distance, a faint light could be seen.
第一本《凝水归流》乃水系法门，自身灵力越强，效果越好，当年帮本座度过了不少难关。¤The first volume of 《Restoring Stream》 is a water-based technique. The stronger one's spiritual power is, the better the effect. It has helped me overcome many difficulties in the past.
你全力施展遁术，但距离风口只有几步远时，一股恐怖的劲风又从裂缝中吹来。此时的风力已胜外围百倍。¤You exerted all your effort in utilizing mobility, but as you were just a few steps away from reaching the exit, a terrifying gust of wind blew from a crack. The strength of this wind was even greater than that present in the outer perimeter, exceeding it by a hundredfold.
本座能够修行近千载，靠的也是当年游历时偶然得到的那几本秘术。如今既已身死，倒也不希望它们就此埋没。¤I have been able to cultivate for nearly a thousand years, and it was all thanks to a few secret arts that I accidentally obtained during my travels years ago. Although I am already dead, I don't want these arts to be buried with me.
你终究还是慢了一些，被吹出好远的距离，重重地砸在岩壁之上，晕死过去...¤You were still a little slow in the end, blown a long way away, and heavily smashed into the rock wall, fainting...
这两片玉简应当就是前辈提及的两本秘术，那几本书册或许是前辈记录的一些心得体会，就这样毁了真是可惜...¤These two jade slips should be the two secret arts senior mentioned. Those few books may be some of senior's personal experiences and insights, it is unfortunate they were destroyed like this...
你平日里也算修行过一些炼体法门，又顶着巨风走了数百米后，风势渐涨，竟也开始感到力不从心，只能勉强用灵力护住周身不被罡风刮伤，却是难以继续前进了。¤On a regular basis, you have practiced some body refinement techniques. After walking hundreds of meters against the strong wind, the wind grew stronger and you began to feel powerless. You could only protect yourself with spiritual energy to avoid being injured by the gusts, but it was difficult to continue moving forward.
你平日里不曾炼体，尽管已有金丹修为，但此时竟也感到有些力不从心，只能勉强用灵力护住周身不被罡风刮伤，确是难以继续前进了。¤You have never practiced body refinement before. Even though you have cultivated your golden core, you now feel somewhat powerless and can only barely protect your body with spiritual energy to avoid being cut by the gusts of wind. It is difficult to continue moving forward.
循着亮光走去，原来是一枚夜明珠被摆放在一张石桌之上，再向旁边望去，还有一张石床，上面是一具盘膝而坐的骷髅。¤Following the bright light, it turned out to be a night pearl placed on a stone table. Looking to the side, there was also a stone bed with a skeletal figure sitting cross-legged on it.
妙哉妙哉，如此奇地，若非有人刻意布阵所为，就是大自然的鬼斧神工，无论如何都值得一看。¤Wonderful, wonderful, so strange! Whether it's the deliberate arrangement of people or the magical work of nature, it's worth seeing.
另外的那本《逆周天结婴术》乃结婴所用秘术，能够提高结婴的成功率。若你已是元婴修为自然无用，但若还在金丹，想必会对你有所帮助。¤The other book 《Reverse Circumstance Nascent Array Skill》 is a secret art used by those who have nascent souls. It can enhance the success rate of nascent soul cultivation. If you have already reached the stage of nascent soul, it is redundant for you. However, if you are still at the golden core stage, it may be helpful for you.
一阵猛烈的狂风从不远处的峡谷刮来，未曾防备之下竟将你吹得一个踉跄，皮肤也被刮的生疼。¤A fierce gust of wind blew from the nearby ravine, catching you off guard and causing you to stumble. Your skin stung from the roughness of the wind.
你惊讶地向峡谷望去，只见峡谷两侧的山石全部都被这里的狂风刮得如同刀削一般平整，没有一棵草木生长。¤You looked in surprise towards the valley, only to see that all the rocks on both sides of the valley were smoothed by the fierce wind as if they were chopped by a knife, with no plants growing.
你全力施展遁术，短短三息之间便来到了风口的深处，巨风便是从这里的一个裂缝中吹出。¤You utilize your mobility technique to its full potential, arriving in the depths of the wind tunnel within the span of three breaths. The gusts of wind emerge through a fissure in this location.
哎，这位前辈能在这种奇地搭建洞府修炼，想来当年也是一方大能，但到最后也逃不过这身死道消的命运...¤Ah, this senior was able to build a cave for cultivation in such a strange place. It seems that he was also a powerful figure in his time, but in the end, he couldn't escape the fate of death and disappearance...
你在这小小的洞府中仔细搜索了一番，可惜除了几本已经无法阅读的书册外，一无所获。¤Unfortunately, you searched carefully in this small cave but found nothing except for a few unreadable books.
到了第五日的酉时，风口的风力陡然减小。你等了整整五日，等待的就是这个机会，立刻运足灵力，毫不犹豫地冲了出去。¤At the hour of You on the fifth day, the wind at the wind passage suddenly decreased. You had been waiting for five whole days for this opportunity, and immediately activated your spiritual power without hesitation, rushing out.
等到第二日{color=#d0380a}子{/color}时，风力突然有所减弱，但只持续了短短几息时间便又恢复如常。¤When the second {color=#d0380a}zǐ{/color} time arrived the next day, the wind suddenly weakened, but it only lasted for a few moments before recovering as usual.
暗格中只有两片碧绿的玉简，和几本颜色发黄，已经四分五裂的书册。随着暗阁的震动，书册竟碎成了一堆粉末。¤In the dark compartment, there were only two pieces of emerald-green jade slips and several yellowish and already cracked books. With the shaking of the dark attic, the books unexpectedly crumbled into a pile of powder.
你心有不甘的想要看看石床下还有没有别的暗格，谁知刚一用力，便不知启动了什么机关，整个石床“砰”的一下炸成了粉末。¤You were unwilling and wanted to see if there were any other hidden compartments under the stone bed. Who knew that as soon as you exerted force, you unknowingly triggered some kind of mechanism, causing the entire stone bed to explode into powder with a bang.
本座乃通古门长老鸿凌子，若有人能看到这里，证明本座修真之路已断，最终也未能突破到化神期。¤I am Hong Lingzi, an elder of the Tonggu Gate. If anyone can read this, it means that my path to cultivation has been cut off, and I ultimately failed to break through to the stage of deity transformation.
洞府已毁，你懊恼不已，但也只能愤愤地离开了这里。¤The cave mansion has been destroyed, leaving you feeling deeply frustrated. However, there is nothing you can do but leave this place with a heavy heart.
你于炼体一道颇有所成，强顶着罡风又走了半日，这才走到风口的深处，巨风便是从这里的一个裂缝中吹出，而这里的风力已胜外围百倍。¤You have made great progress in body refinement. Despite enduring the forceful gusts for half a day, you finally reached the heart of the wind current. The tremendous wind was blowing out of a crevice at this location, and the wind strength here was a hundred times greater than the outer periphery.
在修真这条大道上，身份贵贱，男女之别，年龄大小，皆是虚妄，而若是不能最终跨过仙凡那道鸿沟，那现在所经历的一些都不过是镜花雪月，毫无意义。¤On the path of cultivation, one's status, gender, and age are all meaningless. Only if one can ultimately transcend the gap between immortals and mortals, then all that has been experienced thus far will be like a fleeting shadow or a mirror flower. They will hold no real significance.
你走到床边，对着这具骷髅恭敬地行了一礼。¤You walked to the side of the bed and respectfully bowed to this skeleton.
不知是不是你的动作太大，那句骷髅发出一声轻微的咔嚓声，倒落碎成了一堆。¤I don't know if it's because your movements were too big, but that sentence caused a slight cracking sound and the skull fell apart into a pile.
你顶着罡风慢慢向峡谷深处走去，没走多远就感觉风阻越来越大，已是谷口处的数倍。¤You slowly walk towards the depths of the canyon, braving the gusts of fierce winds. As you continue, the resistance of the wind becomes stronger and stronger, multiplying several times over since you first entered the valley.
正当你唏嘘不已时，恍惚见看到一道淡淡的反光闪过，竟是一枚玉简。¤Just as you were sighing, you caught sight of a faint glimmer. It was a jade slip.
你走到床头，果然看到一枚石球。随着你将灵气注入，石床之下的暗格缓缓打开。¤You walked to the bed and indeed saw a stone ball. As you infused your spiritual power, the hidden compartment beneath the stone bed slowly opened.
到第三日的{color=#d0380a}卯{/color}时，和第四日的{color=#d0380a}午{/color}时，风力同样会有一瞬间的减弱。若能精确把握这个时间，提前做好准备，也许就能成功冲入风口。¤On the third day at {color=#d0380a}dawn{/color} and the fourth day at {color=#d0380a}noon{/color}, the wind will temporarily weaken. If one can accurately grasp this time and prepare in advance, perhaps they can successfully enter the wind tunnel.
到了第五日时，你毫不犹豫地冲了出去。可是风力并没有像你预想的那样减弱。你被烈风吹出好远的距离，重重地砸在岩壁之上，晕死过去...¤On the fifth day, you rushed out without hesitation. However, the wind did not weaken as you expected. You were blown far away by the strong wind and heavily hit the rock wall, passing out...
你在鸿凌子的墓前磕了几个响头，然后便转身离开了这里。¤You kowtowed a few times in front of Hong Lingzi's grave, then turned around and left this place.
你这样想着，于是在洞窟中凿除了一个小小的墓穴，又简单的立了一个墓碑，将鸿凌子的尸首安葬了进去。¤Thinking like this, you chiseled a small cave in the cave, and simply erected a tombstone, burying Hong Lingzi's body inside.
这个石床之下另有一层机关，你只需将灵力输入床头的那枚石球便能打开，切勿使用蛮力。¤There is another level of mechanism under this stone bed. You just need to input your spirit power into the stone sphere at the head of the bed to open it. Do not use brute force.
这枚玉简刚刚正被这具骷髅握在手中，因此不曾被你看到。如今骷髅碎成了一堆，反倒是让这枚玉简漏了出来。¤This jade slip was just held in the hand of this skeleton, so you didn't see it. Now the skeleton has turned into a pile of rubble, and the jade slip has been revealed.
这座峡谷似乎并不简单，要冒险前往探索一番么？¤Does this canyon seem easy? Do you dare to take the risk and explore it?
晚辈多有打扰，还请前辈见谅。¤Senior, I apologize for any inconvenience caused. Please forgive me.
你平日里虽也修行过一些炼体法门，但不甚精通。又走不到百米，风势渐涨，你也开始感到力不从心，只能勉强用灵力护住周身不被罡风刮伤，确是难以继续前进了。¤Although you have practiced some body refinement techniques in your daily routine, you're not proficient in it. As the wind grew stronger and you couldn't walk a hundred meters, you began to feel powerless and could only reluctantly use your spiritual power to protect your body from being damaged by the gales. It was indeed difficult to continue moving forward.
你一口气冲过裂缝，发现自己已经来到了一个地下溶洞之中。身后还能听到呼啸的风声，而洞窟中却平静的很，不到百米的距离却仿佛进入了另外一个世界。¤You rush through the crack and find yourself in an underground cave. You can still hear the howling wind behind you, but the cave is peaceful and serene, like entering another world just a hundred meters away.
通古门的名号我之前从未听说过，也不知鸿凌子前辈已经离世多少年了，书纸都腐败成了这样。¤I had never heard of the name of Tong Gu Men before, and I don't know how many years ago Senior Hong Lingzi passed away, given that the paper of the book has decayed like this.
找了个清净的角落，调整一下状态。¤Found a quiet corner and adjusted my state.
{FirstName}{shidi}，你是第二次参加宗门大比了吧？希望你这次可以有所斩获。¤{FirstName}{shidi}, is this your second time participating in the Clan Competitions? I hope you can achieve great success this time.
赛制使用两两对决的淘汰赛。师弟，请在候场区等候，要登台时自会有人通知。¤The competition adopts a knockout format where contestants face off in pairs. Junior, please wait in the waiting area, someone will notify you when it's your turn to go on stage.
道友，正值我竹山宗宗门大比之际，请回吧。¤Fellow Daoist, as we are currently in the midst of clan competitions for the Bamboo Mountain Sect, please leave.
（还有一段时间才能轮到我上台，现在做什么好呢...？）¤(There's still some time before it's my turn, what should I do now...?)
（希望我竹山宗能涌现一些好苗子，能够一改猎魔试炼的颓势。）¤(I hope that my Bamboo Mountain Sect can produce some talented disciples, able to change the declining trend of the Demon Hunting Trials.)
我竹山宗每30年一次宗门大比，希望各位你们拿出实力，扬我门威。¤My Bamboo Mountain Sect holds the Clan Competitions once every 30 years. I hope you all will showcase your strength and uphold our sect's prestige.
{FirstName}\r{LastName}对阵端木林！¤{FirstName}\r{LastName}Match against Duan Mulin.！
谢师兄挂念，只能说是尽力而为了。¤Thanks, senior brother for your concern. All I can say is that I did my best.
{FirstName}{shidi}，大比的赛制使用两两对决的淘汰赛。你先找个地方调整一下，要登台时自会有人通知。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, the tournament's format involves elimination rounds of one-on-one battles. Find a place to prepare yourself first, and someone will inform you when it's time to perform.
{FirstName}{shidi}，希望你这次可以有所斩获。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, I hope you can gain something from this.
{shidi}，是来参加门派大比的吗？¤${shidi}, are you here to participate in the sect's grand competition?
哈哈，师弟不要妄自菲薄，仙途漫漫，资质从不是最重要的，由擂台而进入宗门的你更应是深有体会。¤Haha, Junior don't underestimate yourself, on the immortal path, aptitude is not the most important thing, as someone who entered the sect through the arena, you should understand this well.
{shidi}，本次大比准备的怎么样啊？¤{shidi}, how are you preparing for the upcoming tournament?
{FirstName}{shidi}，你是第三次参加宗门大比了吧？希望你这次可以有所斩获。¤{FirstName}{shidi}, is this your third time participating in the clan competitions? I hope you will achieve something this time.
师兄，我去了。¤Senior brother, I'm going now.
围墙乃是父亲为躲避龙族攻击所建，如今龙珠已物归原主，这围墙大概也派不上什么用场了。¤The wall was built by my father to protect against attacks from the Dragon Clan. With the Dragon Ball now back in their possession, the wall is likely no longer necessary.
何况还有传说中位于海洋深处的十万年凶兽，那可是元婴期修士也不敢招惹的。¤Moreover, there are rumors of a hundred-thousand-year-old ferocious beast lurking deep in the ocean, which even nascent soul cultivators dare not provoke.
百里邑神色坚定，眼中精光闪烁，看来是没办法从他口中打听到百里奇的去向了。¤Baili Yi's expression was firm, with a glint in his eyes that suggested it wouldn't be possible to pry whereabouts of Baili Qi from him.
围墙乃是为保护广陵城百姓所筑，保险起见分为内外二城，万一外城防线溃败可退至内城。¤The city wall was built to protect the people of Guangling City. For safety reasons, it is divided into an inner and outer city. If the outer city's defenses fail, one can retreat to the inner city.
犬子前些日子去了族中秘境历练，恐怕无法与小友共同出海了。¤My son went to train in the secret realm of our clan a few days ago, so he may be unable to go out to sea with our young friend.
数千年修为的海兽，往往就能与人类的金丹期修士相匹敌。¤Sea beasts who have cultivated for thousands of years can often rival human cultivators in the golden core stage.
呵呵，犬子离家前曾告诉我若{FirstName}道友前来便将他历练之事告诉你。¤Hehe, before leaving home, my son told me that if Fellow Daoist {FirstName} comes, I should tell you about his journey.
无尽之海中的妖兽，要比宁州往日里常见的妖兽恐怖的多。¤The spirit beasts in the Endless Sea are much more terrifying than the spirit beasts commonly seen in Ningzhou in the past.
百里家主竟知百里兄打算与在下出海吗？¤Did the head of the Baili family know that Brother Baili planned to set sail with me?
百里世家这数百年来一直受龙族制约，现在矛盾既已解决，族人也可前往更深的海域了。¤For the past few hundred years, the Baili family has been restrained by the Dragon Clan. Now that the conflict has been resolved, their members can explore deeper seas.
百里世家这数百年来的使命便是抵御海兽的攻击，围墙也是因此而建立的。¤For the past few hundred years, the mission of the Baili Family has been to resist the sea beast's strikes, and the walls were built accordingly.
提及围墙时百里邑神色明显僵硬了几分，仿佛不愿与你多说。你虽心中存疑，见此也不好继续追问。¤When the city walls were mentioned, Baili Yi's expression visibly stiffened, as if unwilling to say more. Although you had doubts in your heart, you didn't want to continue pressing after seeing this.
当然，海兽数量众多，我府人丁也有限，有时也会不得已向散修及宗门修\r士求援。¤Of course, there are numerous sea beasts in the ocean, and our population is limited. Sometimes, we have to ask for help from wandering cultivators and sect cultivators.
小友想问何事？¤Young friend, what do you want to ask?
一道冰冷的神识从你识海中扫过，你只觉得自己仿佛被一条隐匿于黑暗中的毒蛇牢牢盯住。¤A cold soul sense swept through your sea of consciousness, and you felt like you were being stared at by a snake concealed in the dark.
还未等你反应过来，身后杀气已至！¤Before you could react, the killing intent was already behind you!
若没有控制这种火焰独特的方法，即便由你出手帮助，至多不过保他不受反噬，但也绝不可能操控这团火焰。¤Without controlling this unique flame, even if you lend a hand, at most you can only protect him from the backlash, but it is impossible to control this flame.
轰！¤Boom!
{$daoyou}，修炼神通还是应当徐徐图之，最忌急躁。以你现在的状态，还是不要继续修炼了。¤{$Daoyou}, when practicing cultivation or divine skills, it's important to take things slowly and not rush. Given your current state, it's best if you don't continue cultivating for now.
只听轰的一声巨响，随着火焰炸开，灵气剧烈的波动起来。好在在你的压制之下，至少保护了{$jiaofei}没有因此而受到重伤。¤With a loud boom, flames burst out and the spiritual energy violently surged along with it. Thankfully, under your suppression, at least {$jiaofei} was protected and did not suffer any serious injuries.
不错，我努力修炼从不是为了什么得道长生，而是为了复仇。¤Not bad, I strive in cultivation not for attaining eternal life, but for revenge.
是焦兄...但这神通是？¤Is it Brother Jiao...but what is this divine skill?
若你不能放下这一心结，突破时很有可能就会因为意志溃散而神魂俱灭。¤If you can't let go of this one heart knot, it's very likely that your soul will be destroyed due to the dispersal of willpower during the breakthrough.
是焦长老？但他练的似乎不像本门神通...¤Is it Elder Jiao? But the divine skill he practices doesn't seem like our sect's.
你顺着声音传来的方向走去，但见一红袍修士盘腿席地而坐，全身沐浴于一团金色的火焰之中，似乎正在修炼某种高深的法门。¤You followed the direction of the sound and saw a cultivator in a red robe sitting cross-legged on the ground, engulfed in a sphere of golden flames. It seemed like they were practicing some sort of profound cultivation technique.
你敏锐地捕捉到了这一机会，立刻驱使法宝向他冲了过去。¤You keenly seized this opportunity and immediately urged your artifact to charge towards him.
{$jiaofei}对于这种情况似乎并不感到意外，亦或是过去修炼时他已经很多次经历过这样受伤的情景。¤{$Jiaofei} doesn't seem surprised by this situation, perhaps because he has experienced being injured like this many times before while cultivating in the past.
抱歉，我不能告诉你。¤I'm sorry, I cannot tell you.
一阵剧烈的灵气波动传来，伴随着令人不适的热浪扑面而来，即便在这里也并不常见。¤A violent wave of spiritual energy spread out and hit them with uncomfortable heat, something not commonly seen even in this place.
原来如此...看来这便是困扰你的心结了。¤Original, so ... it seems that this is the knot that troubles your heart.
我听说，突破元婴时须得经历心魔考验。¤I heard that one must undergo a demon heart trial when breaking through to the nascent soul stage.
{$jiaofei}一拳砸在地上，眼神中充满着不甘与...仇恨？¤{$jiaofei} slammed his fist onto the ground, his eyes filled with resentment and... hate?
你将一枚少阴清灵丹向他掷去，{$jiaofei}吞下丹药后，气息渐稳，慢慢地压制着那团金色的火焰缩小直到消散。¤You hurled an Azure Heart Pill towards him. After {$jiaofei} swallowed the pill, his breathing gradually stabilized, and he slowly suppressed the golden flames until they shrank and dissipated.
他表情平静，看起来心境平和，你看不出有何异样之处。¤He had a calm expression and appeared to be in a serene mental state; you couldn't detect any abnormalities.
他虽然表情平静，外表看似心境平和，但运气修炼时却略显急躁，以至于对灵气与火焰的掌控能力也有所下降。¤Although he looked calm and his mental state appeared peaceful on the outside, he was slightly impatient during his cultivation, causing a decrease in his control over spiritual energy and flame.
还是说，{$daoyou}有什么难言之隐？¤Or is it that, {$daoyou} has some hidden difficulties to speak of?
但是，问题可能是出在了何处呢...？¤However, where could the problem be...?
正当你暗自思付时，只听{$jiaofei}闷哼一声，刚刚凝聚出的金色火焰仿佛是要挣脱出他的束缚一般，又开始剧烈地抖动起来。¤Just as you were thinking to yourself, you heard a muffled groan from the {$jiaofei}. The golden flames that had just formed seemed as if they wanted to break free from their bindings and began to shake violently once again.
总之，他很快便又闭上双目，重新开始调息打坐。一团小小的金色火焰凭空出现，悬浮于他的胸前。¤In any case, he quickly closed his eyes again and resumed adjusting his breath. A small golden flame appeared out of thin air, hovering in front of his chest.
我会好好考虑的。¤I will consider it carefully.
若是你愿意的话，不妨把困扰你的事情说出来，或许我能够帮助你解开这个心结。¤If you are willing, perhaps you can tell me the things that trouble you, and I might be able to help untie the knot in your heart.
不好，他内伤未愈，看来又要控制不住了！¤Not good, his internal damage has not healed yet. It seems he will lose control again!
我所修炼的神通，唤作凤灵妖火，是我们焦家代代相传一门秘法。¤The divine skill I cultivate is called Phoenix Spirit Demon Fire, a secret technique passed down in my Jiao family for generations.
{$daoyou}可知，突破元婴时须得经历心魔考验。¤{$Daoyou} should know that one must undergo the trial of the demon heart when breaking through to nascent soul.
等到大仇得报的那一天，心魔自然也会消除。¤On the day when revenge is finally accomplished, the demon heart will naturally be eliminated.
何况这天下流传的结婴秘术千奇百怪，或许有某种秘术能够帮助你压制心魔也未可知。¤Moreover, in this world, there are countless nascent array skills and secret arts. Perhaps there is a certain secret art that can help you suppress your demon heart, but it is unknown.
若要控制住这种特殊的火焰，必定离不开对火道与气道极其高深的感悟。{$daoyou}如果能在大道感悟上更加精进一步，再回来领悟神通定会事半功倍的。¤If one wants to control this special flame, they must have a profound enlightenment in both the flame and qi dao. If {$daoyou} can further enhance their great dao sense, they will surely be able to enlighten divine skills with greater ease.
以你对火道的感悟，想要控制寻常火焰定然不费吹灰之力。但这金色火焰竟像是产生了自我意识一样，拼命想要挣脱你的控制。¤With your enlightenment on the flame path, controlling ordinary flames would be a piece of cake. However, this golden flame seems to have developed self-awareness and is desperately trying to break free from your control.
这团金色的火焰似乎极不稳定，很快便剧烈的抖动起来。¤This gold flame seems extremely unstable, and soon starts to violently tremble.
他刚刚修炼时受到的灵气波动虽大，但以他金丹期的修为，并不至于因此便内脏受损口吐鲜血。¤When he was cultivating just now, he received a strong spiritual energy fluctuation. However, with his cultivation at the golden core stage, he was not at risk of his organs getting damaged or vomiting blood.
结婴时虽说有心魔考验，但若意志坚定，也未必没有成功的可能。¤During the nascent formation stage, although there may be a demon heart trial, if one's will is strong, there may still be a possibility of success.
你隐约觉得，他就算这样继续强行修炼下去，也并没有成功的可能。¤You vaguely feel that even if he continues to forcefully cultivate like this, there is no possibility of success.
索性{$jiaofei}似乎掌握了某种能够指挥这种火焰的秘术，在你的帮助下，他重新压制住火焰，控制着它慢慢缩小，直到消散。¤It seems that {$jiaofei} has mastered some kind of secret arts that can command this flame. With your help, he was able to suppress the flames once again and control it to slowly shrink until it dissipated.
若你能突破元婴，到时再修炼这异火秘术自然是水到渠成，报仇也更有把握了。¤If you can breakthrough to nascent soul, then cultivating these secret arts of different fire will come naturally, and you will have more certainty in seeking revenge.
若你能放下心结，专注于感悟大道提升修为，未来大有突破至元婴期的可能。¤If you can let go of your worries and focus on enlightening yourself in the Dao of cultivation, there is a possibility of a breakthrough to the nascent soul stage in the future.
看来{$daoyou}是有什么心结吧？若被这种执念影响了心境，日后修为就再难精进了。¤It seems that {$daoyou} has some mental state issues? If this kind of obsession affects their cultivation, it will be difficult for them to progress in their cultivation in the future.
难道...这是传说中的某种异火？¤Could it be...some kind of Different Fire from the legends?
即便你真能练成这凤灵妖火，想以金丹修为击败元婴期的对手，又有几分把握？¤Even if you can truly cultivate the Phoenix Spirit Demon Fire, how confident are you in using your Golden Core cultivation to defeat opponents in the Nascent Soul stage?
砰！¤Bang!
当年我尚年幼，虽不清楚这些人的具体身份，却记下了他们的神通招式。¤When I was still young, I didn't know the specific identities of these people, but I recorded their divine skills.
这是心结，但也是支撑我修炼的动力。若真放下了，我又为何而修炼呢...¤This is a mental knot, but it is also the motivation that supports my cultivation. If I really let go of it, why would I continue to cultivate...
过了这么久...如今这凤灵妖火之名即便在中州恐怕也很少会有人提起了，你自然没听说过。¤After all these years... the name of the Phoenix Spirit Demon Fire is probably not mentioned much even in Ningzhou, so you naturally haven't heard of it.
他刚刚在修炼时孕育的那种金色灵焰绝不是寻常火焰，即便以你对于火道的感悟已然大成，也绝无可能凭空创造出这样的一团火焰。¤The golden spiritual flame he just cultivated is not an ordinary flame. Even if your enlightenment in the way of fire has reached its peak, it is impossible to create such a flame out of thin air.
你运足灵气，向那团金色地火焰罩去。¤You gather enough spiritual energy and direct it towards the cluster of golden earthfire flames.
告辞...¤Farewell...
到时再修炼这异火秘术，自然水到渠成，重振家族也大有希望，岂不比现在白白送命要好的多。¤When the time comes, cultivating this different fire secret art will come naturally, giving great hope for reviving the clan. Isn't this better than just sacrificing our lives now?
不管你做了什么决定，记得告诉我。¤No matter what decision you make, remember to tell me.
我出生没多久，家族唯一的元婴老祖意外陨落。失去了元婴强者的庇护，我们很快就被觊觎异火秘术的魔修盯上了。¤Not long after I was born, the only Nascent Soul ancestor of our family unexpectedly fell. Without the protection of a Nascent Soul expert, we soon became the targets of demonic cultivators coveting our Different Fires and secret arts.
凤灵妖火...难道是某种传说中的异火么？我竟从来没有听说过...¤Could the phoenix spirit demon fire be some kind of legendary different fire? I've never heard of it before...
可以确定，那时领头之人所使的，便是幽州天魔道的神通。¤It can be confirmed that the leader at that time was using the divine skill of the Heavenly Demon Cult disciple from Youzhou.
此事与你无关...¤This matter has nothing to do with you...
我虽不知{$daoyou}你在修炼的是什么神通，但即便你继续像现在这样强行修炼下去，也只是徒劳让自己受伤罢了。¤Although I'm not sure what divine skill {$daoyou} is cultivating, continuing to forcefully cultivate like this will only result in futile self-injury.
不管怎么说，谢谢你的建议。¤No matter what, thank you for your advice.
我有不得不做之事，即便最后因此殒命我也不会后悔。¤I have something I must do, even if it means I will perish in the end, I will not regret it.
数个元婴期高手联手，我们自然不是对手。家族同胞尽数陨落，只有我侥幸活了下来，辗转逃到了宁州。¤Several experts in the nascent soul stage joined forces, and naturally we were not their opponents. All of our clan members fell, and I was the only one to barely survive. I fled and ended up in Ningzhou.
伴随着一阵剧烈的灵气波动，火焰散去，只见{$jiaofei}眉头紧锁，嘴角留下一缕鲜血，似乎受了不小的内伤。¤Accompanied by a violent surge of spiritual energy, the flames dissipated, revealing {$jiaofei} with a furrowed brow and a trail of blood lingering at the corner of their mouth, seemingly suffering from significant internal damage.
他刚刚在修炼时孕育的那种金色灵焰你闻所未闻，你于火之道的感悟本就不算精通，实在很难从这里得到什么有用的信息。¤The golden spiritual flame that he just cultivated is unheard of to you. Your enlightenment in the fire dao is not considered proficient, so it is very difficult to gain any useful information from here.
若你真的无法放下这心结，倒不如放手一搏吧。¤If you really can't let go of this knot in your heart, why not give it a try and let go?
若是气道修为高深，或许可以强行控制住灵力波动，或是至少保护内脏与经脉不受此冲击而受伤。可惜你对气道亦不精通，换做是你也未必能做的更好。¤If one's cultivation of qi dao is profound, perhaps they can forcibly control the fluctuations of spiritual power, or at least protect their internal organs and meridians from being injured by such impacts. Unfortunately, you also don't possess great expertise in qi dao, so even if it were you, you may not be able to do better.
我并非宁州生人，而是自中州而来。¤I am not a native of Ningzhou, but rather I come from Zhongzhou.
{$jiaofei}强行修炼神通受了内伤，此时正是你趁火打劫的大好时机。¤{$jiaofei} forcefully cultivated divine skills and suffered internal damage. This is the perfect opportunity for you to take advantage of the situation.
{$daoyou}，你心境不稳，服下此丹，或许能帮你控制这灵焰。¤{$Daoyou}, your mental state is unstable. Take this pill, it may help you control the spiritual flame.
好诡异的神通...这是？¤Such a mysterious divine skill... what is this?
此事与你并无关系，你不想无端牵扯进来。¤This matter has nothing to do with you, and you don't want to get involved for no reason.
你运足灵气，向那团金色的火焰罩去。¤You gather your spiritual energy and head towards that golden flame, shrouded in flames.
若不能亲自手刃这些人，即便百年以后他们未能突破化神而殒命了，也难解我心头之恨！¤If I am unable to personally kill these individuals, even if they die without achieving a breakthrough deity transformation after a hundred years, it will be hard to ease the hatred in my heart!
如果你没有其它事的话，我要重新开始修炼了。¤If you don't have other matters to attend to, I need to resume my cultivation practice.
这些年来我接了不少剿灭邪修的任务，暗中调查当年之事，最近终于有所进展。¤In recent years, I have taken on many quests to destroy evil cultivators and have been investigating the past in secret. Recently, I have finally made some progress.
你虽有心相助，却束手无策。只能眼睁睁看着火焰“轰”的一声炸开，{$jiaofei}口吐鲜血，大口大口的喘着粗气。¤Although you have the intention to help, you are powerless. You can only watch as the flame BOOM explodes. {$jiaofei} spits out blood and gasps for air heavily.
若是能在修炼时服下一颗{color=#d0380a}少阴清灵丹{/color}，应该有助于他稳定心境，至少不至于受到这灵焰的反噬。¤If he could take an {color=#d0380a}azure heart pill{/color} while cultivating, it should help him stabilize his mental state, at least preventing him from being affected by the backlash of this {spiritual flame}.
这的确难以两全...¤It is indeed difficult to have both.
看来他修炼的这门神通对五脏六腑产生的压力颇大，若还要强行修炼的话，恐怕会有性命之忧...¤It appears that the cultivation of this divine skill is putting a great pressure on his internal organs. If he continues to forcefully cultivate it, there may be a danger to his life...
看来，是长时间强行修炼已经对他的内脏与经脉造成了过重的压力。但若能在{color=#d0380a}气道{/color}感悟上更进一步，达到道之真境的境界，便能保护自身不受灵气波动的冲击。¤It seems that prolonged intensive cultivation has caused excessive pressure on his organs and meridians. However, if he can further enlighten himself in the {color=#d0380a}qi dao{/color} and reach the true state of dao, he will be able to protect himself from the impact of spiritual energy fluctuations.
不过此事与你无关，我知道其中风险，也自有分寸。¤But this matter has nothing to do with you. I know the risks and I have my own measures.
他执意要继续修炼，你也无可奈何。但你隐约觉得，靠这种方式强行修炼下去，并没有成功的可能。¤He insisted on continuing his cultivation, and you had no choice. However, you faintly felt that forcing cultivation in this way would not lead to any possibility of success.
这绝焰堂人数稀少行事低调，即使是咱们也接触不多，也不知道在鼓捣什么？¤The members of Jue Yan Hall are few in number and operate discreetly. Even we have little contact with them and don't know what they are up to.
我救下她之后，她赠我丹药就没再联系了。¤After I saved her, she gave me some medicine as a gift and never contacted me again.
你听说了么？最近绝焰堂召回了宗门弟子。¤Did you hear? Recently, the Jueyan Hall has recalled the disciples of the sect.
说罢他向你展示了一颗丹药。¤After speaking, he displayed a pill to you.
打扰了。¤Excuse me.
{shixiong}也是修炼了魔焰决么？这丹药20000灵石就卖你吧¤Shixiong, have you also cultivated the Demon Flame Technique? I'll sell you this pill for 20,000 spirit stones.
唉，我早就劝你弃了这《魔焰决》的。¤Ah, I had already advised you to give up on this 'Demon Flame Decision'.
我还有其他事，先告辞了。¤I have other things to attend to, so I'll take my leave.
嗨，也没什么好猜的，他们常年驻守麟庙听命于麟尊大人，多半是麟尊他老人家又有吩咐罢了。¤Hey, there's nothing much to guess about. They are stationed at the Lin Temple year-round, obeying the orders of Lord Lin. Most likely, it's because Lord Lin has given them some instructions.
（脸色一白）嘶~¤(Face turns pale) Sigh~
玄古门？玄古丹？衡州？¤Hengzhou?
...嗯¤Hmm...
这玄古丹乃是衡州玄古门所炼制的丹药，即可增进修为又有益寿之效，更惊喜是似乎能弥补修炼魔焰决的气血亏空。¤This profound ancient pill is a medicine refined by the Hengzhou Profound Ancient Sect. It can enhance cultivation and promote longevity, and more importantly, it seems capable of replenishing the lifeforce deficiency caused by practicing the Exorcising Demon Flame Technique.
嗯，而且麟庙彻底封门了，我上次误入直接被赶了出来。¤Well, moreover, Lin Temple is completely closed off, and I was kicked out last time when I accidentally went there.
你啊，你自己注意就好。¤You, just take care of yourself.
修仙本就是逆天而行，旁人也没什么好置喙的。¤ itself is walking against the heavens, and others have no right to interfere.
怎么，老毛病犯了？¤What's wrong, are you experiencing your old ailment again?
呶，这玄古丹就是。¤Wow, this is the profound ancient pill.
刚刚无意间听到，《魔焰决》的缓解之法故而冒昧请教。¤Just now, I accidentally overheard about the method to ease the 《Magical Flame Technique》. I took the liberty to inquire about it.
你细细打量着手中的丹药。这丹药通体鲜红，透露出诡异的香甜。¤You carefully examine the pill in your hand. This pill is a bright red color and emits a strange, sweet fragrance.
对对对，哈哈哈，我就是好奇。¤Yes, yes, yes, hahaha, I am just curious.
我曾救下一名来自衡州的修士，他就是玄古门弟子，我的玄古丹都是由他所赠。¤I once saved a cultivator from Hengzhou who was a profound ancient sect disciple. He gifted me with profound ancient pills.
没事，最近我已找到方法缓解了。¤It's okay, I've found a way to alleviate it recently.
可否引荐一二？¤Can you recommend one or two?
以我的资质想要有这种修炼速度，我有别的选择么？¤With my aptitude, is there any other choice for me to have such cultivation speed?
天下奇门异术数不胜数也没什么好奇怪的。¤There are countless odd gate and heaven and earth techniques in the world, nothing strange.
虽是许久无人维护，但是你仍可以看出此地是洞府的阵眼。¤Although no one has maintained this place for a long time, you can still tell that this is the formation eye of the cave.
一番查探你发现此地的阵眼已经完全损坏。¤After some investigation, you discover that the formation eye in this place has been completely destroyed.
一番查探你发现此地的阵眼尚未完全损坏，通过观察布阵手法你小有所得。¤After investigating, you found that the formation node here has not been completely damaged. By observing the method of setting up the formation, you have gained some insight.
嗯，消息已经传递到，告辞。¤Okay, the message has been passed on. Goodbye.
白帝飞升于宁州而言确是一件大事。¤The White Emperor's ascension in Ningzhou is without a doubt a major event.
多谢{FirstName}前辈。¤Thank you, {FirstName} senior.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来贵派邀请火麒麟前辈届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for his transition to ascension and has specifically asked me to extend an invitation to Senior Fire Qilin to attend and observe the tribulation.
但火麒麟老祖闭关未出，只得等老祖神游而归，才能将此事告知。¤However, Senior Fire Qilin is still in seclusion, so we can only wait for their return before informing them about this matter. 
多谢{FirstName}道友。¤Thank you, {FirstName}, fellow daoist.
公孙季的名号我倒是听说过，不过他为人低调，很少展露真实的实力，不知道他是否愿意与我切磋。¤I have heard of the name Gongsun Ji before, but he is a humble person who rarely reveals his true strength. I don't know if he is willing to have a duel with me.
但近日实在无聊，同辈人中竟无人能在我手中取胜，不知道友可知哪位同辈英杰能与我一试高下？¤Recently, I have been bored. None of my peers have been able to defeat me in battle. Fellow daoist, do you know of any equally skilled peers who could compete with me?
倪旭欣的名号我倒是听说过，不知道倪家的剑法他学了几成，正好向他讨教一番。¤I have heard of the name Ni Xuxin before, but I am not sure how much of the Ni family's swordsmanship he has learned. I would like to seek advice from him.
那就多谢{FirstName}{LastName}道友了。¤Thank you, fellow daoist {FirstName}{LastName}, for your help.
你想了想，决定推荐...¤You pondered for a moment and decided to recommend...
哈哈，道友不必如此惊惶。我观你行色匆忙恐有要事，今日便不找道友切磋了！¤Haha, fellow daoist need not be so alarmed. I see that you are in a hurry, perhaps with important matters to attend to. Let's not duel today!
你心里一惊，为了避免被他拉着比试连忙在脑内组织推辞的话语。¤Your heart skips a beat, and in order to avoid being pulled into a competition, you quickly organize words of refusal in your mind.
林沐心的名号我倒是早有耳闻，听说她天赋异禀，年纪轻轻便筑基了，倒是个不错的对手。¤I have long heard of the name Lin Muxin, who is said to possess exceptional talent and has successfully built her foundation at a young age. She would make a formidable opponent.
糟了，是百里奇...¤Oh no, it's Baili Qi...
{FirstName}{LastName}道友留步！¤{FirstName}{LastName}Fellow daoist, please stay a moment.！
我派在这几届猎魔试炼中都没什么出彩的表现，倒是让离火门那炎萧出尽了风头。¤In these few demon hunting trials, my sect did not have any outstanding performances, but the Fire Gate Sect's Yan Xiao stole the show.
青麟虽是我派这一代天资最好的弟子，但性子却是过于温和了。¤Although Qinglin is the most talented disciple of my generation, his temperament is too gentle.
杜兄也要多加小心才是，再会。¤Brother Du must also be more careful, goodbye.
在我小时候，禾山派为了修炼他们那邪道功法，便时常来我杜家村偷偷抓人。¤When I was a child, the He Shan Sect often came to my Du family village to secretly capture people for their wicked cultivation techniques.
眼见小弟落败，麻老九的处境也变得微妙起来。¤As the younger brother was defeated before his eyes, the situation for Old Ma also became delicate.
起初我爹娘以为只是些寻常山贼，便号召全村人奋起反抗，不料那些人竟是修士，我们这些凡人根本不是对手。¤Initially, my parents thought they were just ordinary bandits, so they rallied the entire village to resist. However, those people turned out to be cultivators, and us mortals were no match for them.
之后，颜老怪就不停的派人在我们的地盘挑事。¤Afterwards, Geezer Yan kept sending people to stir up trouble on our turf.
再后来，沂山派的人找到了我，发现我身具灵根，就把我带回了沂山。¤Later on, people from Mt. Yi Sect found me and discovered that I possessed a Spiritual Root, so they brought me back to Mt. Yi.
哼，没用的东西，看我回去怎么收拾你。我们走。¤Hmph, useless thing. Watch how I take care of you when we get back. Let's go.
眼见麻老九落败，周遭的练气期修士瞬间作鸟兽散，麻老九也落荒而逃。¤Seeing Old Ma Nine's defeat, the cultivators in the surrounding Qi Refining stage scattered like birds and beasts in an instant, and Old Ma Nine fled in desolation.
哈哈哈哈，看来你的小弟也不怎么顶用啊？¤Hahaha, it seems that your little brother is not very useful, huh?
修行本应追求长生之道，你父母一定更希望你好好活下去才对吧？¤Your cultivation should be focused on seeking eternal life. Your parents would surely want you to live well, right?
当初沂山派或许也只是想利用你的仇恨才拉你入伙的。¤In the beginning, Mt. Yi Sect might have only wanted to use your hate to recruit you into their faction.
谢了{xiongdi}。这次要不是你，我怕是要交代在这了。¤Thanks, brother. If it weren't for you this time, I might have to meet my end here.
杜老二的眼神流露出一丝坚毅。¤Du Lao Er's eyes revealed a hint of perseverance.
眼见小弟落败，颜老怪的处境也变得微妙起来。¤As he watched his younger brother suffer defeat, the situation for Geezer Yan became precarious. 
前段时间，我们大哥二哥莫名其妙死在了后山，也不知道是哪个王八蛋干的。¤Recently, our eldest and second brother died inexplicably on the back mountain. We don't know who did it.
没有了大哥二哥，我们根本不是那帮瘪三的对手，最后就只能散伙了…¤Without our eldest and second elder brothers, we are simply no match for that group of weaklings. In the end, we could only disband.
这事说来真他娘的蹊跷。¤This matter is really suspicious.
“当初除掉那二人只想是为民除害，顺便还能得个宝贝，没想倒是让禾山派一家独大了起来…”¤When we initially eliminated those two people, it was only to rid the people of harm and perhaps gain a treasure as well. We didn't expect it to lead to the domination of Mt. Harvest Sect.
待到麻老九走远，杜老二也支撑不住，栽倒在了地上。¤After waiting for Old Ma to leave, Old Du couldn't hold on any longer and fell to the ground.
无妨。那人说沂山派散了，究竟是何缘由？¤No problem. That person said that Mt. Yi Sect has disbanded, what exactly is the reason behind it?
就算沂山派只是为了利用我也无关紧要，这仇要是不报，我修炼都没法安心。{xiongdi}你就别再劝我了。¤Even if Mt. Yi Sect is just using me, it doesn't matter. If I don't avenge this grudge, I cannot concentrate on my cultivation. {xiongdi}, please don't try to persuade me anymore.
你能感受到他语气中的决绝与恨意。¤You can feel the determination and hatred in his tone.
虽说这事后来上报了仙府，禾山派再也不敢这么猖狂了，但我爹娘却永远回不来了…¤Although this matter was later reported to the immortal mansion and the Harvest Mountain Sect never dared to be so arrogant again, my parents can never come back...
…此事又是从何说起？¤...Where should I start with this matter?
这跟沂山派一点关系都没有，我跟禾山派本来就是不共戴天之仇。¤This has nothing to do with Mt. Yi Sect. I have an irreconcilable hatred with Mt. Harvest Sect from the beginning.
既然沂山派已然不复存在，禾山派的人为何还要追杀你？¤Since the Mt. Yi Sect no longer exists, why is the Mt. Harvest Sect still chasing after you?
算你走运，今天就饶你们一回。我们走。¤Consider yourself lucky, today we'll spare you. Let's go.
我要赶紧找地方疗伤了。今天的救命之恩，我会记在心里，后会有期。¤I need to find a place to heal quickly. I will remember your life-saving kindness today and will meet again in the future.
我爹娘带头反抗，就被最先抓了去…¤My parents led the rebellion and were the first ones to be captured...
加入沂山派后，我每天拼命修炼，就是为了能报这一箭之仇。当年那些人，我非手撕了他们不可！¤After joining the Mt. Yi Sect, I diligently cultivated every day, all for the sake of avenging this arrow. Those people from back then, I won't rest until I personally tear them apart!
“没了沂山派制衡，这禾山派只怕更肆无忌惮了…结丹以后还是想办法治治他们吧。”¤Without the check and balance of Mt. Yi Sect, it is likely that Mt. Harvest Sect will become even more rampant... We will have to find a way to discipline them after they reach the Core Formation stage.
待到颜老怪走远，杜老二也支撑不住，栽倒在了地上。¤After Geezer Yan had gone far away, Old Du could no longer hold on and fell to the ground.
你的心情我理解…可是人死不能复生，你为了向他们寻仇，险些将命赔进去，真的值得嘛？¤I understand your feelings... but people cannot come back from the dead. Is it really worth risking your life for revenge against them?
他只是犹豫了一瞬。¤He only hesitated for a moment.
你发现了一株{SayStcVal=948}。¤You have discovered a {SayStcVal=948}.
徐凡去准备这届的宗门大比了，如果能拔得头筹的话这次应该是筑基有望......¤Xu Fan went to prepare for the clan competitions of this session. If he can come out on top, he has a chance at foundation building...
唉，那徐凡又没能在门派大比中拿到筑基丹，一气之下竟放弃修炼外出云游寻找新的丹方了......¤Alas, Xu Fan couldn't get his hands on the Foundation Pill during the Sect's Grand Competition. In a fit of anger, he gave up on cultivation and left to travel the world in search of new recipes...
哈哈哈，道友所取之物，完全符合物主的交换条件，道友一会儿可以凭此来任意挑选你想要换取的材料。¤Hahaha, fellow daoist's materials fully meet the exchange requirements of the owner. Fellow daoist can use them to freely select the materials you want to exchange for.
不知...那物主想要用这些材料换些什么？想来普通的东西，他应该是看不上的吧。¤I wonder...what does the owner of these materials want to exchange them for? Ordinary things probably won't catch his eye, right?
诸位请看。¤Everyone, please look.
我阁只会根据交易物品的价值抽取一小部分灵石作为抽水。待交易成功后，便会通过传音符将物品送到诸位手中。¤My pavilion only extracts a small amount of spirit stones as commission based on the value of the traded items. After the transaction is successful, the items will be sent to you through sound talismans.
这付骨骸足以拆成数件土属性的六品材料，而若是能配合其它稀有材料合理加以炼制，炼成那通天灵宝也是大有希望。¤These bones can be broken into several pieces of sixth grade materials with earth attributes, and if they are properly blended with other rare materials, there is great hope of refining them into spiritual treasures.
我这里倒是有他想要的材料，道友看看，可否用来换取这堕山骨骸？¤Fellow Daoist, I happen to have the materials you're looking for. Take a look and see if they can be exchanged for the Fallen Mountain Bone.
若单论价值而言，这瓶丹药的确在六品化神妖兽材料之上。但...¤If we are talking purely about value, then this pill is indeed above sixth-grade deity transformation spirit beast materials. But...
道友可愿出售这枚混元仙体丹？我愿意再加三成的价！¤Fellow daoist, would you be willing to sell this Chaos Immortal Form Pill? I am willing to offer an additional 30% of the price.
这点倒也不必担心。从今日起，我们天机阁的交易会将长期对各位元婴期的道友们开放。¤You don't have to worry about this. Starting today, the trade at the Heavenly Machine Pavilion will be open to fellow daoists in the nascent soul stage for a long time.
怎么？我这枚可是能够提升化神成功率的混元仙体丹，而且炼制之法在宁州早已失传，难道还换不得那几块骨骸？¤What? This pill is the chaos immortal form pill that can increase the success rate of deity transformation. Moreover, the method of refining it has already been lost in Ningzhou. Can't I exchange it for those few bones?
不过若是寄换的宝物无人换取或是任何原因放弃寄换，我们都会退换全部的费用。¤However, if the exchanged treasure is not exchanged by anyone or if it is abandoned for any reason, we will refund all the costs.
你的手头恰好有符合兑换需求的妖兽材料，你决定...¤You happen to have spirit beast materials that meet the exchange requirements in your hands, so you decide to...
这堕山大圣的名号如今虽已无人提起，但万余年前也是赫赫有名的一方妖圣。当年它到底是因何陨落，至今仍是一个谜团。¤The name of this fallen great saint is no longer mentioned by anyone today, but more than ten thousand years ago it was a famous demon saint. The reason for its downfall is still a mystery.
此言一出，台下众人不免一阵骚动...¤As soon as these words were spoken, there was an uproar among the audience below the stage...
怎么样，道友意下如何？¤How about it, fellow daoist? What do you think?
这...果真是化神期妖兽的遗骸。难...难道是那{$yaoshou}？¤This... is indeed the remains of a void transformation spirit beast. Is... Is it that {$yaoshou}? 
确有听到风声，那{$yaoshou}不知被何人斩杀了。我还只当是谣言，难道...¤I did hear the rumors, that {$yaoshou} was killed by an unknown person. I thought it was just hearsay, but could it be...
那物主想要炼制一柄契合他自身使用的通天灵宝。五品元婴期妖兽的材料虽说也很稀有，但想凭此炼制通天灵宝，却是绝无可能的，这点道友应该清楚。¤The owner wanted to refine a sky spiritual treasure that would suit him. Although the materials from a fifth-rank nascent soul spirit beast are rare, it's impossible to refine a sky spiritual treasure with them. Fellow Daoists should be clear on this.
竟是混元仙体丹？¤Is it really the Chaos Immortal Form Pill?
那物主想要交换的物品，和这堕山的骨骸一样，乃是六品的化神期妖兽材料。而且必须是金属性，或是混元属性的材料。¤The item that the owner wants to exchange is a sixth stage deity transformation spirit beast material, just like the bones of this fallen mountain. And it must be a material with either metal or chaos attributes.
哼，若只能换取灵石，我倒不如拿去拍卖，何必在此时拿出来。¤Hmph, if I can only exchange for spirit stones, I might as well take it to the auction. There's no need to bring it out at this moment.
那天机阁管事接过药瓶，拧开瓶盖嗅了嗅，便露出了极为惊讶的神情。¤The manager of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion took the medicine bottle and sniffed it after unscrewing the cap. They then showed an expression of extreme surprise.
每次寄换，我们会抽取相当于目标物品价值2%的灵石作为抽水。¤Every time you exchange, we will draw spirit stones equivalent to 2% of the value of the target item as a handling fee.
若是诸位手头也有一些宝物，想要换取一些指定的物品，也可以来我这里登记。¤If you have some treasures on hand and want to exchange them for specific items, you can also register with me.
哼！那若是今日在场无一人能够拿出符合他交易条件的物品，又当如何？¤Hmph! What if nobody here today can produce items that meet his trade conditions?
道友莫急，此等重宝，我们天机阁自然是识货的。若这些材料本就归属于我阁，那我们定愿意拿来与道友交换。¤Fellow Daoist, please don't worry. Our Heavens Secrets Pavilion naturally recognizes the value of such precious materials. If these materials already belong to our pavilion, we are willing to exchange them with you.
自然，若只是寻常能够用灵石买到的宝物，那也不必放到这交易会上来置换。¤Naturally, if it's just ordinary treasures that can be purchased with spirit stones, then there's no need to exchange them at this trade fair.
不如这样，我愿意用五件水属性的元婴期妖兽材料，再加上一些稀有的草药与他交换，不知可否？！¤How about this, I am willing to use five water attribute nascent soul spirit beast materials, along with some rare herbs, to trade with him. What do you think?!
各位道友，我们天机阁此番受托，在拍卖大会结束后，额外举办的这场特殊的交易会，是为了拍卖几件特殊的宝物。¤Fellow Daoists, the Heavens Secrets Pavilion has been entrusted to hold this special trade after the auction. We will be selling a few special treasures in this event.
我这里也有一物，对于元婴期修士而言，价值犹在那堕山骨骸之上。你不妨先拿去问问那物主可愿与我交换。¤I have something here that is just as valuable to nascent soul cultivators as the fallen mountain bone. You might consider taking it to the owner and asking if they are willing to trade with me.
此言一出，台下众人又是一阵骚动，一道道目光向你扫来，你能感受到其中有惊讶，羡慕，甚至贪婪与恐惧...¤Upon saying this, the crowd below immediately stirred up, with gazes scanning towards you one after another. You could sense surprise, envy, even greed and fear among them...
他一挥手，只间一团蓝色的灵气包裹着一个精美的丹药瓶向高台飞去。¤With a wave of his hand, a group of blue spiritual energy wrapped around an exquisite medicinal pill bottle and flew towards the high platform.
根据我们的鉴定，这几件材料便是化神期妖兽堕山的骨骸。¤According to our assessment, these materials are the bones of a spirit beast that reached the void transformation stage.
所有价值低于一万灵石的物品，我阁都不会接取。¤We will not accept any items with a value below ten thousand spirit stones at our pavilion.
本次的交易会除了我刚刚提到的堕山大圣的骨骸外，还包括一些其它的稀有宝物。诸位若是感兴趣的话，可以来这里的告示上查看。¤Aside from the bones of the fallen mountain grand saint I just mentioned, this trade will also include some other rare treasures. If you are interested, you can check the announcement here.
你挥挥手，一件青色的玉匣缓缓飞向高台。那名天机阁管事接过玉匣，打开一看，便惊讶道...¤With a wave of your hand, a cyan jade box slowly flew towards the high platform. The secrets pavilion manager received the jade box and opened it, surprised by what he saw...
你跟着此人穿过长长的走廊，来到了一处布置的异常别致的屋子内。屋子很大，足以容纳百人，却只放置了十余张桌椅，远远的围成一圈。中间则是一座白玉雕成的高台，想来是用于展示宝物的。¤You followed this person through a long corridor and arrived at a uniquely decorated room. The room was very large, big enough to accommodate a hundred people, but there were only about ten tables and chairs arranged in a circle at a distance. In the middle was a white jade high platform, presumably used to display treasures.
你随意找了一处坐下。很快，其它前来参加交易会的修士也陆续抵达。他们中有的是你曾在拍卖会上见到过的，也有的则没有，想来是特地为了这交易会而来，这让你不免多了一些兴致。¤You found a spot to sit down and soon enough, other cultivators who came to participate in the trade fair arrived one after another. Some of them you had seen at the auction before, while others were new faces who likely came specifically for this event. This piqued your interest.
天机阁的小型交易会，主要是为了方便诸位换取一些平日里有价无市的稀有宝物，因此对于寄换物品的价值也有一定的基础要求。¤The small-scale trade fair of the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion is mainly for the convenience of everyone to exchange for some rare treasures that are valuable but not available in daily life, so there is a certain basic requirement for the value of the items to be traded.
他一挥手，几块巨大的骨骸便浮现于高台之上。从这些骨骸上隐隐出来的威压与极为厚重的土属性灵气，就知道它们并非凡品。¤With a wave of his hand, several huge bones emerged on the high platform. The might suppression emanating from these bones, along with their extremely dense soil attribute spiritual energy, showed that they were not ordinary items.
不过既然这些材料是其它雇主委托我们天机阁交易的，我也没有权利擅自替他人更改交易的条件，还望道友见谅。¤However, since these materials were entrusted to the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion for trade by other employers, I have no right to unilaterally change the terms of the trade on behalf of others. I hope my fellow daoist can understand.
这化神期妖圣哪个不是一方霸主？即便是同样化神期的前辈也不敢随意招惹他们，这样的交换要求，未免也太高了一些。¤Which senior in the Void Transformation stage isn't a dominant force in their own land? Even fellow seniors in the same stage dare not provoke them indiscriminately. These demands for exchange are a bit too high.
如何？用我这瓶丹药，想要换取那些堕山骨骸应该是绰绰有余了吧。若非这材料恰好与我合用，我是绝不会拿出来交易的。¤How about this? With my pill here, I should have more than enough fallen mountain bones to trade for. I won't trade unless the materials are suitable for me.
诸位若是手头一时拿不出符合要求的物品也无妨，只要你心仪的宝物还没有被其他人换去，都可以随时来此交易。¤If you don't have any suitable items on hand, it's okay. As long as the treasure you desire hasn't been traded by someone else, you can come here to trade at any time.
哈哈哈，其他道友也不必担心。从今日起，我们天机阁的交易会将长期对各位元婴期的道友们开放。¤Hahaha, fellow daoists don't need to worry. Starting from today, our Heavenly Machine Trading will be open long-term to all fellow daoists in the Nascent Soul stage.
你唯一想知道的事情只有渡劫之时将会是何情景，以及“太虚”究竟是为何物。于是，你径直走向了大殿，打算向掌门询问相关事宜。¤The only thing you wanted to know was what the scene would be like when you undergo tribulation, as well as what exactly the taixu was. So, you headed straight to the main hall, intending to ask the master about these matters.
无趣…¤Boring...
修士们各自在房间内修行，或坐而论道，或切磋技艺，或处理事宜。此情此景虽与你初入宗门时并无二致，但其中之人你却少有相识。¤The cultivators were all practicing in their respective rooms, either debating with each other or dueling to improve their skills, or handling sect matters. Although this scene may seem familiar to you when you first joined the sect, you hardly know any of the acquaintances here.
有趣~¤Interesting~
既然洞悉了一切，那么便再也没有初入宗门时那股新鲜与向往，这一切对于你而言只是“发生”了，仅此而已。¤Since you have comprehended everything, there is no longer the freshness and longing as when you first entered the sect. All of this is just something that has happened to you, and nothing more.
但长生路上千难万险，越到最后关头越是大意不得。想到此处，你便径直走向了大殿，打算向掌门询问相关事宜。¤But on the path of eternal life, there are countless difficulties and dangers, and the closer you get to the end, the more careless you become. With this in mind, you head straight to the main hall, intending to ask the master about relevant matters.
宛如神明一般，你能洞悉所有人，却没有人看见你，这种感觉……¤Like a deity, you can perceive everyone but no one can see you. This feeling...
你在宗门内漫步。不必刻意伸展神识，整个宗门的每个细节都被你探查的一清二楚。¤You stroll within the sect. There's no need to consciously stretch your soul sense, as every detail within the sect is laid bare before you.
这种凌驾于一切之上的感觉，让你觉得之前做的一切付出都是值得的，而你梦寐以求的长生大道，距离你也仅有一步之遥！¤This overwhelming feeling of being above everything else makes you feel that all the efforts you have made before are worth it, and the eternal life path that you have been dreaming of is just one step away from you!
黑木老魔...¤Blackwood Old Devil...
这便是你在风雨楼所接悬赏的目标，但他此前毕竟与你相识...¤This is the target you accepted as a bounty in Storm Manor, but he was an acquaintance of yours before this.
还是被你找到了。¤You still found me.
如此想来，当年确实曾听那沂山双鬼提到过他们有一个什么师傅去了海外渡劫...不会便是此人吧...¤Thinking about it, it is true that the Mt. Yi twin ghosts mentioned their master going overseas to undergo tribulation... could it be him?
也不知这毕长寿和他有没有关系...¤I don't know if Bi Changshou has anything to do with him...
百毒老怪...听说他便是当年创立沂山派之人，只不过为了躲避仇敌才去了海外。¤The hundred poisonous old monster...it is said that he was the founder of Mt. Yi Sect, but he went overseas to avoid his enemies.
当年在永安镇除掉的那个叫毕钟天的村霸，似乎就有个不知在沂山派还是禾山道的爹。¤The village tyrant Bi Zhongtian, who was eliminated in Yong'an Town many years ago, seemed to have a father who belonged to either Mt. Yi Sect or Mt. Harvest Sect.
别逼我动手杀你。¤Don't force me to kill you.
毕长寿...¤Bi Changshou...
是{$name}...¤It's {$name}...
就算你逃到天涯海角，我也会找到你。¤Even if you flee to the ends of the earth, I will find you.
王登...原来是他...¤King Deng... It was him...
虽说是好色之徒，但应当也没做过什么太伤天害理之事。不该是惹了哪位惹不得的仙子，才遭来了这杀身之祸吧...¤Although he was a lecherous person, he hadn't done anything excessively immoral. Perhaps he had offended some unoffendable fairy, which led to this deadly calamity...
堂堂天魔道的元婴期长老，却偷偷摸摸潜伏于宁州。能趁此机会将他除去，倒也不错。¤The elder at the nascent soul stage of the heavenly demon cult is secretly lurking in Ningzhou. It wouldn't be a bad idea to take this opportunity to get rid of him.
此人便是风雨楼悬赏的目标，而眼下正是动手的大好时机！¤This person is the target of Storm Manor's bounty, and now is the perfect opportunity to take action!
此人便是风雨楼悬赏的目标，但在此地动手却并不明智...¤This person is the target of Storm Manor's bounty, but it's not wise to make a move here.
眼前之人看起来疯疯癫癫的，嘴里嘟嘟囔囔的不知在说些什么。¤The person in front of me looked crazy and was muttering something incoherently.
当年你没能留住我，现在也不行。¤You couldn't keep me back then, and you can't now.
天儿...天儿...呜呜呜...都杀了...炼成肉参...桀桀桀...¤Dear Heavens...they've killed everyone...and turned them into root ginseng...hahaha...
哎...龙族虽然天赋异禀，但这种天赋也为天地所不容，所以金丹期蛟龙就必须渡过这样的雷劫才能化为真龙。¤Ah... Although the dragon clan has unique talents, this talent is also not tolerated by heaven and earth. Therefore, to become a true dragon, a sea dragon at the golden core stage must cross the thunder kalpa.
你将灵气灌入双目，目光穿透层层雷云，只间一条蛟龙盘踞于云端，双目直直地盯着天空。¤You infused spiritual energy into your eyes, penetrating through layer upon layer of thunderclouds. Suddenly, a Sea Dragon coiled in the sky, staring straight ahead with its eyes fixed on the heavens.
一道白光闪过，第一道天雷带着浩荡天威，已是落下。只见那蛟龙不闪不避，迎着雷劫便冲了上去，旋即便被劈的翻落了数百米。¤A white light flashed and the first Heavenly Lightning, with its vast celestial might, had already descended. The Sea Dragon didn't dodge or evade, instead it charged up towards the Thunder Kalpa and was immediately struck down, falling several hundred meters.
如此天地异象，莫非是有什么异宝将要出世？¤Is there some kind of strange treasure about to be born with such a strange phenomenon in the world?
应该不是，你看，那雷云之中似乎有什么东西。¤It shouldn't be, look, there seems to be something in that thundercloud.
那是…蛟龙？原来是蛟龙在引化龙劫！¤Is that...a sea dragon? So it turns out that the sea dragon is attracting the tribulation of the dragon's transformation!
“轰隆...\"天空晴日里一声雷鸣炸响，顷刻间，天地随之色变。方圆数万里，一眼望不见尽头的区域，满是乌云。¤A thunderous boom... In the clear sky of the day, a thunderclap resounded, and in an instant, the world changed color. Within an area of several thousand square miles, the region that cannot be seen at a glance is filled with dark clouds.
起初的几道天雷看起来威力一般，但随着威力不断变强的天雷一道道落下，那蛟龙已被劈的遍体鳞伤，动作也开始迟缓了下来。¤At first, the few bolts of heavenly lightning appeared to have average power, but as each bolt became stronger and fell from the sky, the sea dragon was left with scales all over its body, moving slower and slower.
修真本就是逆天而行，追求强大的力量总是需要付出代价的。或许有一天，我也不得不直面这样的天劫吧...¤Cultivation is going against the heavens and always pursuing stronger power always has a price. Maybe one day, I will also have to face such a calamity...
{vpunch=10,0.5}轰...¤Boom...
随着最后一道天雷落下，本就摇摇欲坠的蛟龙再也无力支撑，从半空中坠落下来，漫天的乌云就此散去...¤With the final heavenly lightning strike, the already teetering sea dragon was no longer able to hold on and plummeted from mid-air, causing the black clouds that filled the sky to dissipate...
先前从圣地离开恐怕已经引起了他们的注意，我还是不要自找麻烦了。¤It's probably better for me not to attract any unwanted attention since leaving the Holy Land earlier may have already caught their notice.
放心吧魏老，我对自己有十足的信心。¤Rest assured, Old Wei, I have complete confidence in myself.
哎...我明白你的心意。¤Ah... I understand your intentions.
是，我明白。¤Yes, I understand.
不过若是渡劫时遇到任何意外，我都会主动停下秘术，到时你可切勿因此分心。¤However, if any unexpected tribulation occurs during the crossing, I will stop the secret arts actively. Please do not be distracted because of this.
作为你的师父，无论如何，我都为你感到骄傲。¤As your master, no matter what, I am proud of you.
你神识触碰到它中心区域的一瞬间，就被它弹开了，难道是神魂受到了冲击？¤The moment your soul sense touched the central area of it, it was pushed away. Could it be that your soul was impacted?
这水晶当真有这么玄妙？你现在感受如何？¤Is this crystal really so mystical? How are you feeling now?
你努力回忆着过往，希望从中找到一丝丝线索 。¤You tried hard to recall the past, hoping to find a trace of clues from it.
是吗…是这样的吗？这就是所谓的机缘吗？¤Is that so... Is this what they call opportunity?
我感觉像是做了一场很长很长的梦，但是又什么都想不起来……¤I feel like I had a very long dream, but I can't remember anything...
刚刚那是什么？我感觉像是……做了一场梦？¤What was that just now? I feel like... I had a dream?
习得{color=#d0380a}《忘凡咒》{/color}。¤Learned {color=#d0380a}《Forget Mortal Incantation》{/color}.
你开始细细体会这种感觉，并尝试着去掌控它。¤You begin to carefully experience this feeling and try to control it.
你猛然醒来，只觉得脸上一片冰凉。手一摸，竟是眼泪。¤You suddenly woke up, feeling a coldness on your face. As you touched it, you realized it was tears.
当你回忆到一些世俗的桥段时，你隐约察觉到了自己的不同——面对美酒佳肴，却没有了品尝的欲望；想起朋友亲人，也不再有当初的好感。有关凡人的一切，似乎都在离你远去。¤When you recall some of the mundane moments, you vaguely notice your difference – faced with fine wine and cuisine, but devoid of the desire to taste them; remembering friends and family, but no longer holding the same affection as before. Everything about mortals seems to be slipping away from you.
不是……¤It's not...
我感觉很累…有种无力感，就好像失去了什么一样…¤I feel very tired...a sense of powerlessness, as if something has been lost...
“看来还真是不小的机缘…也好，你就安心感悟吧，{xiaozi}。”¤It seems like quite a big opportunity... Well then, you can focus on enlightening yourself now, {xiaozi}.
没想到恒如真人与其亲传弟子竟是魔门卧底...不知门内还有多少受其迫害的修士。¤Unexpectedly, the Paragon Eternal Harmony and his personal disciple turned out to be spies from the demonic sect... I wonder how many cultivators within the sect are being persecuted by them.
你远远看到澹台仙被一众化尘教修士围在中间，看来对方应该没时间与你寒暄了。¤You see from afar that Tantai Immortal is surrounded by a group of Shifting Sand Sect cultivators. It appears that they don't have time to chat with you.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，快看这是什么！¤{FirstName} brother, look at what this is!
另外我估摸着你的伤势应该是没有大碍了，不如我们这便去见师祖吧。¤By the way, I estimate that your injuries should be no problem now. Shall we go see our master?
好，我也正有此意，还请倪兄带路了。¤Okay, I also have this intention. I'll ask Senior Ni to lead the way.
那我也不客气了，多谢倪兄。¤Well then, I won't be polite either. Thank you, Ni Xiong.
倪旭欣神神秘秘的掏出来数枚红中带粉的果实，你虽说不出个名头，但也能感受到这些果实中大道流转，绝非凡物。¤Ni Xuxin secretly took out several red fruits with a hint of pink. Although you couldn't name them, you could feel the power of the dao circulating within them. These were certainly not ordinary fruits.
无聊之时，你也会将诛仙剑拿出，端详这把与你经历密不可分的“魔剑”。不过不知是你神魂还未恢复最佳状态，还是这“魔剑”又有了进阶，每当你想用神识探查剑内的情况时，散发出的神识总是如泥牛入海般消弭无踪。¤During idle moments, you would take out the Immortal Sword and examine the Demon Sword that is inseparable from your experiences. However, whether it was due to your soul not yet fully recovered or the Demon Sword advancing, whenever you try to sense its condition with your Soul Sense, the emitted senses always disappear without a trace.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，师祖估摸着你的伤势应该是没什么大碍了，让我带你去见他。¤{FirstName} Brother, the master estimates that your injuries should not be a big problem anymore. Let me take you to see him.
这...难道是从海底带出来的？¤Is this... brought from the bottom of the sea?
自白帝将你和倪旭欣从图南海带回南崖城已是有些时日，这段时间你也是在客房中调养一番，让自己的伤势稳定了下来。¤Since the White Emperor brought you and Ni Xuxin back to South Cliff City from South Tu Sea, it has been some time. During this time, you have been recuperating in the guest room, stabilizing your injuries.
嘿嘿，这是我们被古树甩出来的时候，我顺手薅下来的。这不有好几个，想着送{FirstName}{xiongdi}几个。¤Hehe, this is something I picked up while we were thrown out by the ancient tree. There are quite a few, so I thought I'd give some to {FirstName}{xiongdi}.
“吱呀”一声，倪旭欣已是推门而入。这也是在回到南崖城之后，他首次进入你修养的房间。¤With a creaking sound, Ni Xuxin pushed open the door and entered. This was also the first time he entered your practice room since returning to South Cliff City.
道友，我这里可都是我{SayStcVal=917}的珍品。¤Fellow daoist, everything here is a treasured possession of mine {SayStcVal=917}.
你睁开双眼，只觉得眼前一片清明，原本昏暗的洞窟现在也能看的清清楚楚，想必夜视与远视的能力都得到了一定的提升。¤You open your eyes and feel a clearness in front of you. The previously dim cave is now visible and clear to see, indicating an improvement in your night vision and far-sightedness.
在岩壁凹陷处，你果然发现了一湾浅浅的清泉。若非先前打听到的情报，你绝对不会注意到它有任何特殊之处。¤At the indentation of the rock wall, you indeed discovered a shallow spring. If it wasn't for the information you had previously obtained, you would not have noticed anything special about it.
你睁开双眼，这一次与之前不同，你觉得自己的眼前浮现出一丝淡淡的蓝光。¤You open your eyes, this time different from before, you feel a faint blue light appearing before your eyes.
你结了个法印，泉水便自动分为两团碧蓝晶莹的液体，慢慢漂浮到空中，然后飞入你的双目之中。¤You formed a seal, and the spring water automatically divided into two pools of sparkling blue liquid, which slowly floated into the air and then flew into your eyes.
你将灵力向目中猛然灌去，再向周围望去时，只觉得周天一切事物都清晰数倍，你甚至能够清晰的看到天地间灵气的流转。¤You pour your spiritual energy into your eyes and suddenly everything in the world becomes several times clearer. You can even see the flow of spiritual energy between heaven and earth.
你放出神识探查泉水，一股霸道的阴寒气息侵入你的神魂...看来这便是传闻中提到的阴冥泉水了。¤You release your soul sense to investigate the spring water, and a domineering chill invades your soul... it seems that this is the deep yin spring water mentioned in the rumors.
心境{color=#d0380a}+20{/color}，神识{color=#d0380a}+1{/color}¤Mental state {color=#d0380a}+20{/color}, Soul sense {color=#d0380a}+1{/color}
之前收集的草药都用完了，看来还得再收集几份才行。¤Before, all the herbs I collected have been used up. It seems like I'll need to collect a few more again.
看来仅仅用这灵泉清洗一次双目并没有太大的功效，想让双目练就某种神通，还得多找几口泉水才行。¤It seems that merely using this spiritual spring to cleanse my eyes once does not have much effect. If I want to cultivate some kind of divine skill in my eyes, I'll need to find more springs.
这泉水初入双目时冰寒刺骨，令你不由自主的打了个冷战。足足过了半个多时辰，寒意才渐渐退去。¤When this spring water first entered your eyes, it was extremely cold, causing you to shiver involuntarily. It took more than half an hour for the coldness to gradually subside.
若是此时有人站在你的身前，应该会惊讶地发现，你的两只瞳孔分别变换为了一黑一白的两种颜色。¤If someone were standing in front of you at this moment, they would be surprised to find that your two pupils have changed to two different colors, one black and one white.
习得：{color=#d0380a}阴阳瞳{/color}¤Acquired: {color=#d0380a}Yin Yang Pupil{/color}
你将一株腐骨灵花与七彩月兰放入泉水中泡发。整整一日后，泉水已呈碧蓝色泽，说明大部分的药性皆被泉水吸收。¤You put a stalk of earth matriarch petal and a rainbow moon orchid into the spring water to soak. After a full day, the spring water had turned into a bright blue color, indicating that most of the medicinal properties had been absorbed by the water.
只是这种状态仅仅持续了数秒，你灌入双目的灵气便已消耗殆尽。¤Just as this state lasted only a few seconds, the spiritual energy that you infused into your eyes has already been completely depleted.
你想继续追击时，那黑烟迅速地消散在了空气中。¤When you wanted to continue the pursuit, the black smoke quickly dissipated in the air.
你在这里彻底混乱前翻遍了连盛平的居所，最终找到了一本诡秘的功法。这本功法似乎有些眼熟，你定睛一看，赫然是先前在圣坛修习了开篇的那本灭灵诀。¤Before everything here falls into complete chaos, you ransack Lian Shengping's dwelling and finally discover a mysterious technique. This technique seems somewhat familiar, and as you take a closer look, you realize that it is none other than the Spirit Destroying Skill which you practiced earlier on the Sacred Altar.
不管怎么说这本功法的强劲你有所体会，你决定先把它带走再仔细考虑是修练还是出售。¤Regardless of anything else, you have felt the strength of this technique. You decide to take it with you and carefully consider whether to cultivate it or sell it.
你的灵气如摧枯拉朽般向连盛平袭去，就在他即将命丧于你这攻击下时一阵浓重的血雾袭来。只见连盛平的身体在空中扭曲变形,最终化为一团黑烟，避开了致命一击。¤Your spiritual energy strikes towards Lian Shengping like a force that can demolish anything, but just as he was about to lose his life to your attack, a dense cloud of blood mist appeared. Suddenly, Lian Shengping's body twisted and distorted in mid-air, eventually turning into a black smoke, evading your fatal strike.
或许是他受创过重，无力支撑千流岛迷阵的消耗；又或许是他因距离过远，失去了对阵法的控制权...你能感受到一直笼罩着千流岛的怪异气息正逐渐散去，要不了多久这里便能完全摆脱连盛平的掌控。¤Perhaps he was too injured to sustain the consumption of the Myriad Rivers Island array, or maybe he lost control of the array due to being too far away... You can feel the strange aura that has been shrouding Myriad Rivers Island gradually dispersing, and it won't be long before this place completely breaks free from Lian Shengping's grasp.
魏无极的声音重新在你脑海中响起，你镇定心神，把刚刚看到的景象向魏无极一一转述。¤Wei Wuji's voice resounded in your mind again. You calmed your mind and relayed the scene you just saw to Wei Wuji one by one.
我遇到的第二个幻象，用的似乎是金虹剑派的招法。¤The second illusion I encountered seemed to use the techniques of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
不过你当时应该就已经陷入了幻境，六感都被隔绝，所以无法与我交流。没过多久，你就开始对着附近胡乱攻击，我也束手无策。¤However, at that time you should have already been trapped in an illusionary realm, and your six senses were isolated, so you couldn't communicate with me. After a while, you began to strike random things nearby, and I was powerless to stop you.
令人在不知不觉中陷入幻觉，随后再用根须扎根将他们身上的灵气抽干。对于境界稍低之人，甚至能直接灌输大道感悟，令其神魂失守。¤Without realizing it, they were trapped in an illusion and then their Qi was drained by root whiskers. For those with a lower level of cultivation, it could even directly impart great dao sense, causing their soul to lose control.
刚刚你走了没多久，我便发现那些原本静止不动的根须开始慢慢朝着我们移动。¤Just as you left not long ago, I noticed that those previously stationary root whiskers started to slowly move towards us.
当年与倪兄来此时，虽然也曾陷入幻境，但与今日的感觉却截然不同，也不知这其中到底有何差异...¤When Brother Ni and I came here back then, we also fell into an illusionary realm, but the feeling today is completely different. I don't know what the difference is...
好险...若是被这些根须缠住，再想脱身就难免会惊动那古树本体了。¤That was close... If I were caught by these root whiskers, it would be hard to escape without alerting the original form of the ancient tree.
能够操控四柄魔剑的魔修，和实力强大的金虹剑派修士...他们有什么关联么？¤Is there any connection between the demon cultivator who can control four demon swords and the powerful cultivators of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect?
我遇到的第二个幻象，他用的招法似乎是...金虹贯日？¤The second illusion I encountered used a technique that seemed to be... radiant sun-piercer?
怎么了？刚刚发生什么了！¤What happened? What just happened!
我是何时陷入幻境的？¤When did I fall into the illusionary realm?
好在诛仙剑释放了此前从这古树中吸收的能量，现在这些根须看起来对你没什么敌意了。¤Luckily, the Immortal Sword has released the energy it absorbed from this ancient tree earlier, so now these root whiskers seem to have no hostility towards you.
师兄曾说过，可以把这神秘的古树看做是道的化身，但它攻击别人的方式却处处透露着邪门与诡异，与我所熟知的大道正统相悖...¤Senior Brother once said that we can see this mysterious ancient tree as an incarnation of the dao, but the way it strikes at others is full of wickedness and strangeness, which contradicts the orthodox Dao that I am familiar with...
身后的诛仙剑突然微微颤抖，你感觉一股似曾相识的能量包裹周身，眼前的幻象也消散一空。¤The immortal sword behind you suddenly trembled slightly, and you felt a familiar energy enveloping your body. The illusion in front of you also disappeared.
凭你如今修为，竟也会在不知不觉中陷入幻境，这古树还真是不可小觑。¤With your current level of cultivation, you were unexpectedly trapped in the illusionary realm without realizing it. This ancient tree is truly not to be underestimated.
不知道...¤I don't know...
嗯。不知青麟兄遇到了什么瓶颈？若能帮的上忙，在下一定鼎力相助。¤Um. I wonder what kind of bottleneck Brother Qinglin has encountered? If I can help, I will definitely do my best to assist.
只见他眉间微蹙，神情略显犹豫。¤I only saw him slightly frown, his expression showing a slight hesitation.
只是师尊教我的新功法，还有些生疏罢了。¤Just that the new technique my master taught me is still a bit unfamiliar.
道友，请指教。¤Fellow daoist, please enlighten me.
你二人飞至九嶷山上一处僻静之地。¤You two flew to a secluded land on Jiuyi Mountain.
此地较为僻静，不会被人打扰，倒是个切磋的好地方。¤This place is quite remote and won't be disturbed by others, it's a good place to duel.
先鉴别药材，再搜集丹方，又准备丹炉，然后耗以日月……哪里及得上直接从我这买方便？¤First identify the medicinal materials, then collect the recipes, prepare the alchemy furnace, and then consume them using the sun and moon... How can it compare to the convenience of buying directly from me?
能不能教教我怎么炼丹？¤Can you teach me how to practice alchemy?
仔细再看的话，这几簇都是七叶的，凡人尚可一用。那两簇四叶的，药性恐怕还比不上普通的止血草。¤Upon closer inspection, these clusters all have seven leaves, which can be used by mortals. The two clusters with four leaves probably have medicinal properties that are not even comparable to ordinary hemostatic herbs.
嗯...据说这青芝只有在无尽海渊灵力集中之处才容易形成三叶，想来也确不会像这般在野外成簇生长。¤Well...it is said that this Qingzhi herb only easily forms three leaves in places where spiritual energy is concentrated in the endless abyss. It's unlikely that it would grow in clusters like this in the wilderness.
恐怕不是，这三叶青芝即便在无尽海渊中也属于极其稀有的草药。像这种比较明显的地方若是有的话，也早就被采完了，哪里轮得到我们。¤I'm afraid not. The Trileaf Azure Shroom is an extremely rare herb, even in the Endless Abyss. If there were any obvious places where they grew, they would have been harvested long ago. There's no chance for us to collect them.
转眼望去，一旁的山脚下，长着一簇簇与三叶青芝九分相似的草药。¤Glancing over, at the base of the nearby mountain, grew clusters of herbs that bore a striking resemblance to the trileaf azure shroom.
这颜色，这纹路...莫非是三叶青芝？¤This color, these patterns... Could it be the Trileaf Azure Shroom?
不过，现在这门技术在我看来有着难以解决的弊端。¤However, in my opinion, this technique currently has difficult-to-solve drawbacks.
眼前之人早就不似之前神勇，气息虚弱呼吸局促，一时之间都站立不稳。¤The person in front of them was no longer as heroic as before, with weak breaths and unsteady posture, unable to stand still for a moment.
（看来此人刚刚的表现是激发潜能的丹药不能持久。）¤(It seems that the person's recent performance has been sparked by the use of a short-lived potential-enhancing elixir.)
我平时会在天星城坊市售卖丹药，道友若是有空可以来找我。¤I usually sell elixirs at the Tianxing City Market. Fellow Daoist, feel free to drop by if you have some free time.
正好试试我这炼妖散和灵纹。¤Let me try out my demon refining powder and spirit on this.
讲究的是将妖兽血脉融于自身以修为精进易经伐髓，甚至可以获得妖兽神通。¤The key is to integrate the bloodline of the spirit beast into oneself in cultivation, allowing for the gain of divine skills. It is even said that with sufficient mastery, one can sever their own marrow and reach greater heights in their journey towards enlightenment.
不过，现在这“一次性”的灵纹实非我所愿啊，果然这项技术还是大有问题。¤However, I really didn't intend for this disposable spirit pattern to be used. It seems there are still many issues with this technology.
轩岚诺周身火焰一起直冲对面，对面的人连发法术却不能伤其分毫。¤Xuan Lannuo's body was surrounded by flame as it rushed straight towards the opponent, who cast spell after spell but couldn't even scratch him.
至于火系神通，我是用了豹麟兽的精血，于双掌之上铭刻了灵纹。¤As for the divine skill of fire, I used the essence of the leopard and lin beasts to inscribe spirit marks on both palms.
轩岚诺皱着眉头凝视掌心，之后看向你。¤Xuan Lannuo furrowed her brows and stared at her palm, then looked up at you.
道友似乎有很多想问的？¤Fellow daoist seems to have many questions?
哼，尽是些宵小之辈。¤Hmph, they are all small fry.
{FirstName}道友，救命大恩无以为报，这炼妖散是我最新炼制的，与人相斗必有大用，不过丹毒甚猛，还需与其他丹药搭配服用。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, I can never repay your life-saving kindness. This demon refining powder is my latest creation, it will be of great use in fighting against others. However, it is highly poisonous, and must be taken in conjunction with other medicinal pills.
这炼妖散在本门是一个尚在研究中的秘药。¤This demon refining powder is a secret medicine that is still being researched in our sect.
阻挡你的人尚不是你一合之敌，处理完他阵法也就破了，你看向轩岚诺。¤The person blocking your way is not yet your equal, once you deal with his array, it will be broken. You look towards Xuan Lannuo.
一道炙热的火焰从其掌中喷出，直接洞穿对方。为首之人身死，围攻玄古门的散修也作鸟兽散。¤A scorching flame burst out from their palm, piercing through the leader and killing them instantly. The wandering cultivators who were attacking the Profound Ancient Sect scattered like birds and beasts in fear.
看道友这大展神威的样子，显得我很多余嘛。¤Fellow daoist's display of shen wei makes me feel unnecessary.
浴火之时我不过是使用了含有豹麟血的炼妖散罢了。¤At the time of bathing in fire, I simply used demon refining powder containing leopard and unicorn blood.
我服用的是我自己改良的炼妖散，主要还是用于战时瞬时激发妖力。¤I took my own improved demon refining powder, mainly to instantly stimulate demonic power during battles.
只见他一掐法诀，一条火龙直逼轩岚诺而去。¤I saw him make a hand seal, and a fire dragon shot straight towards Xuan Lannuo.
你这！！！？？？¤You, what's going on!!!???
唉，要是就好了，我并非妖族，刚刚是我服用了我自己改良的炼妖散。以药力催发妖族精血的妖力。¤Ah, if only it was that simple. I am not a demon, I just took my own refined demon refining powder. It stimulates the demon power in the blood by using the power of medicine.
只见他服下一粒丹药，眼睛化作蛇瞳，一股强横的妖气自他的体内迸发而出。¤I saw him swallow a pill, and his eyes turned into snake pupils as a strong demonic energy burst out from his body.
轩岚诺提起双掌，掌心似有灵纹显现，竟毫发无损的击散了这火龙。¤Xuan Lannuo raised his palms, and spiritual lines seemed to appear in the center of his palms. He effortlessly dispersed the Fire Dragon without any damage.
轩岚诺苦笑的抬起双掌。¤Xuan Lannuo raised both palms with a bitter smile.
不愧是{FirstName}道友，一点就通。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, truly impressive! You grasp the essence with ease.
（好大的野心。）¤(What a huge ambition.)
刚刚看道友爆发出强横的妖气，莫非道友乃是？¤Just now, fellow daoist emitted a powerful demon aura. Could it be that fellow daoist is a...?
道友小心。¤Fellow daoist, be careful.
呼~呼~~多谢道友相助，你就莫要调笑我了，若不是你出手破了阵法，今日我就着了这些小人的道了。¤Hoo~ Thank you, fellow daoist, for helping me. Please don't tease me anymore. If it weren't for you breaking the array, I would have fallen into the hands of these wicked people.
妖兽血脉，自古以来不知引得多少修士垂涎，道友有此成果已是惊世骇俗了。假以时日必能成功。¤Spirit beast bloodlines have been coveted by countless cultivators since ancient times. Fellow daoist, achieving this feat is truly astounding. With time, success is sure to be within reach.
死。¤Death.
切。装神弄鬼，受死吧。¤Cut it out. Putting on airs as a god and tricking others, you shall receive death.
此时，你注意到他眼瞳恢复正常，连掌心的灵纹也在快速消退。¤At this moment, you notice that his pupils recover to normal, and even the spirit marks in his palms are quickly fading away.
之前看你浴火而无伤且能瞬发天阶火系神通，观道友气息不像是精于火之道的。¤I previously observed that you bathed in fire without injury and were able to instantly unleash the heavenly fire avatar. However, fellow daoist, I sense that your aura does not suggest proficiency in the fire dao.
呵呵，萤火之光。¤Hehe, the light of fireflies.
炼妖散？¤Demon Refining Powder?
佩服，佩服。¤Admire, admire.
噢？¤Oh?
有意思。¤Interesting.
这颗筑基丹你且拿好，我百里奇向来说话算话！¤Take this Foundation Pill and keep it safe. I, Baili Qi, always keep my word!
哈哈哈，此战真乃酣畅淋漓，我百里奇甘拜下风。快快请进，在下还想再与道友讨教一二！¤Hahaha, what a thrilling battle! I, Baili Qi, am humbled by my opponent's skill. Please come in, my fellow daoist, I would like to learn more from you!
连我三招都接不下...可惜，可惜...¤Even I couldn't block three of his moves... Unfortunately, unfortunately...
快快请进，在下还想再与道友讨教一二！¤Please come in, fellow daoist. I still wish to learn from you!
哈哈哈，此战真乃酣畅淋漓，我百里奇甘拜下风。¤Hahaha, what a thrilling battle, I, Baili Qi, am truly inferior.
（嗯，我马上过来。）¤( Hmm, I'll be right there. )
（看这灵气波动，前方好像有个阵法，虽然看起来像是没什么，但神识探测却阻挡在外，难道...神识传音通知{$Lin}过来吧。）¤(Judging from the fluctuations in spiritual energy, there seems to be an array up ahead. It may not look like much, but my soul sense is blocked from detecting it. Could it be...? I'll transmit a message to {$Lin} using my soul sense to come over here.)
唔，宫主的神识好像消失了，我感应不到。¤Mmm, it seems like the palace master's soul sense has disappeared, I can't sense it.
你与林沐心会合后便一起进入阵中。¤After meeting up with Lin Muxin, you both entered the array together.
（我在附近找到一个阵法，宫主说不定就被困阵中。）¤(I found an array nearby. The palace lord might be trapped inside.)
可能是进入了什么特殊的秘境或阵法一类，我们在附近找找吧。\n¤Perhaps we have entered into some special realm or array. Let's search the surrounding area.
也许是我的错觉的吧，¤Perhaps it's just my imagination.
你细细感知之下此地也和别处没有什么不同。¤When you carefully sense it, this place is no different from anywhere else.
眼前雷云草草看去，这片雷云和周围狂暴的灵气乱流没有什么不同¤Looking hastily at the thunderclouds in front of him, there was no difference between this thundercloud and the surrounding turbulent spiritual flows.
看着并无不同，但是习自炎帝前辈秘术却对此处有所反应，这里应该就是九霄雷狱的节点。¤Looking at it, it seems no different, but the practice of Emperor Yan's secret arts by Senior has had a reaction here, so this should be the node of the Nine Heavens Lightning Prison.
说罢，你平心静气闭上眼感知那一缕若有若无的先天之气，顺着它的指引你发现了一处空间节点。¤After speaking, you calmly closed your eyes and sensed that faint trace of innate energy. Following its guidance, you discovered a spatial node.
你感觉习自炎帝的秘术开始不自觉的运转了，一丝丝先天之气透过肌肤荡涤着你的肉身。¤You feel the secret arts you learned from Emperor Yan starting to unconsciously activate, a trace of innate energy flowing through your body, purifying your physical body.
眼前的异空间充斥着恐怖的天雷，一阵阵毁灭的气息四散开来，煌煌天威不可阻挡。¤The otherworldly space before him was filled with terrifying heavenly lightning. Waves of destruction spread out, and the majestic power of heaven was unstoppable.
你感觉此地的灵力波动与雷灵很是相似。¤You feel that the spiritual energy fluctuations in this place are quite similar to the thunder spirit.
看着并无不同，但此地的波动与雷灵很是相似，这里应该就是九霄雷狱的节点。¤Looking at it, there seems to be no difference. But the fluctuations here are very similar to the thunder spirit. This should be the node of the Nine Heavens Thunder Prison.
怎么？此地有什么不同么？¤What? Is there anything different about this place?
可惜，让他给跑了。¤Unfortunately, he let him escape.
呼...多谢道友出手相助。¤Ah... Thank you, fellow daoist, for your help.
这千流岛的独门道法果然厉害得紧，若不是道友出手，恐怕我已经...¤The unique martial arts of Myriad Rivers Island are truly powerful. If not for the help of Fellow Daoist, I would have been in trouble...
（实力暴涨的秘术...原来如此...）¤(The secret arts that cause a sudden surge in power...so that's how it works.)
（好邪门的功法...怪哉，怪哉...）¤(Such a sinister technique...strange, strange...)
那边的岩洞里有好几株千年的月灵花，想必是正巧吸收了某处灵眼的灵气才能同时长出这么多。我们就是为它起的争斗。¤In that cave over there, there are several thousand-year-old moonspirit blossoms. They must have absorbed the spiritual energy from a certain spiritual eye to grow so many at once. We are fighting for them.
那千流岛修士不知用了什么法门，身形忽然暴涨，几招将你逼退后，便化作一道遁光飞也似地逃走了。¤The cultivator from Myriad Rivers Island used some unknown technique and suddenly swelled in size. After a few moves, they forced you to retreat before transforming into a beam of light, flying away.
之前就听闻千流岛有一种在短时间内让实力暴涨的秘术，颇为诡异。再加上独门神通灭灵掌，在海上基本没有同等修为的修士敢惹他们。¤I've heard before that Myriad Rivers Island has a rather strange secret art that can make one's power rapidly increase in a short amount of time. Coupled with their exclusive divine skill of the Spirit Destroying Palm, there are barely any cultivators of the same level who dare to provoke them on the sea.
自然...自然，这几株月灵花归能者所有，道友尽管取走便是，我这便离去，绝对不会再有任何想法。¤Naturally...naturally, these few moonspirit blossoms belong to whoever is able to obtain them, fellow daoist can take them away as you please, I will leave now and will not have any other thoughts.
道友本就于我有救命之恩，这几株灵药就当是我从道友手里买下的，这些灵石还请道友不要拒绝。¤Fellow daoist, you have already saved my life. These few herbs shall be considered as me purchasing them from you. Please do not refuse these spirit stones.
那...那真是多谢道友了！¤Thank you so much, fellow daoist!
我对这月灵花没什么兴趣，你若需要的话，全部拿去便是了。¤I'm not really interested in these moonspirit blossoms. If you need them, you can just take them all.
你开始着手修缮此地阵法。¤You begin to work on repairing the array formation here.
是来修缮阵法的长老大人？¤Are you the elder who came to repair the array formation?
也不知阵法有什么异变，此番长老竟花费了如此之久。¤I don't know what changes have occurred in the array, but this elder has spent so much time on it.
此地阵法不过一些简单的聚灵、防御阵法，不过数量不少，倒也花费些时日。¤The array formation here is nothing more than some easy spirit-condensing and defense formations, but there are quite a lot of them, which will take some time.
长老定是精通阵道的高手，短短十数日便完成了任务。¤The elder must be an expert in array dao, and he completed the quests in just a few days.
呼~以我的阵法修为，恰好足矣修缮此地阵法。¤Whoosh~ With my cultivation in array, I'm just the right person to fix this formation here.
呼~~这阵法之道果然博大精深，我还是不是很擅长这类任务啊。¤Phew~ The way of array formation is truly vast and profound. I am not very skilled in tasks like this.
嗯，我已完成掌门交代的事宜。¤Mmm, I have completed the tasks assigned by the master.
你离开时，听到远处执事的自言自语。¤When you left, you could hear the attendant's soliloquy in the distance.
此地阵法的修复对你而言不算容易，但仔细钻研一下还是完成了任务。¤Repairing the array at this location wasn't easy for you, but with careful study, you still managed to complete the quest.
此地阵法的修复对你甚是困难，但凭你金丹期的见识还是花费不少时间勉强修复了。¤The repair of the array here posed a difficult challenge for you, but with your knowledge at the golden core level, you managed to barely repair it after spending a considerable amount of time.
此地阵法的结构对你而言甚是简单，但数量繁多还是花费了一些时日。¤The structure of the array here is quite easy for you, but the large amount still took some time to complete.
不错，我派掌门真人突破在即。此番前往宁州古迹，我派的重要目标便是收集这些草药，特别是在宁州极为少见的炼心芝，以便炼制草药。¤Not bad, our sect's master is about to make a breakthrough. The important goal of our sect's journey to the Ningzhou ancient ruin is to collect these herbs, especially the rare Heartrend Shroom found in Ningzhou, for the purpose of refining medicine.
咦，莫非是竹山宗的{FirstName}长老？在宁州久闻你的名号，今日一见果然不同凡响。¤Oh, could it be Elder {FirstName} from Bamboo Mountain Sect? I have long heard of your reputation in Ningzhou, and seeing you today truly lives up to my expectations.
咦，莫非是离火门的{FirstName}长老？在宁州久闻你的名号，今日一见果然不同凡响。¤Oh, could it be the Elder {FirstName} from the Fire Gate Sect? Your name has been well-known in Ningzhou for a long time, and seeing you today confirms that you are indeed remarkable.
原来是鸢本仙子。许久未见，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turns out to be the Fairy Origin Hawk. Long time no see, if we were to meet in ancient relics this time, please take care of me.
细细想来我化尘教掌门闭关也有近五百年，此次历练结束，也不知掌门能否出关。¤Upon careful consideration, the shifting Shifting Sand Sect headmaster has been in closed-door cultivation for nearly 500 years in the Shifting Sand Sect. It is uncertain whether the master will emerge from seclusion after this trial has ended.
不知道友可否见过我座下亲传弟子...？方才还见他在此等候，可临行时却又不见踪影......¤Fellow daoist, I wonder if you have met my personal disciple under my seat...? I just saw him waiting here, but he disappeared before my departure...
原来是化尘教门的鸢本仙子，久仰大名，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤Originally the fairy origin hawk of the Shifting Sand Sect, I have long heard of your name. If we were to meet in the ancient ruins, please take care of me.
我听说，贵派近日在四处收集有生息药性的高阶草药？¤I heard that your sect has been recently collecting high-level herbs with birthing properties?
不知{$TmpTalkString}可否见过我座下亲传弟子...？方才还见他在此等候，可临行时却又不见踪影......¤I wonder if {$TmpTalkString} has seen my personally taught disciple under my seat...? I just saw him waiting here, but he disappeared when he left...
{$TmpTalkString}若是能寻得此类草药，不知可否出让与我派？我们定会以重金收购。¤{$TmpTalkString} If you happen to come across any of these herbs, would it be possible to sell them to our sect? We will certainly pay a high price for them.
{$TmpTalkString}客气了。¤{$TmpTalkString} You're welcome.
咦，莫非是星河剑派的{FirstName}长老？在宁州久闻你的名号，今日一见果然不同凡响。¤Hm, could it be Elder {FirstName} of the Celestial River Sword Sect? Your name has been heard for a long time in Ningzhou, and today's meeting truly lives up to your reputation.
咦，莫非是金虹剑派的{FirstName}长老？在宁州久闻你的名号，今日一见果然不同凡响。¤Oh, could it be Elder {FirstName} from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect? Your name has long been heard in Ningzhou, and today's meeting proves that you are truly remarkable.
据说，只要能够在千流岛设下的擂台上展露头角，就有机会成为连家供奉，学到他们的独门秘术。哎...师妹也是因此才一个人去了那里。¤It is said that as long as one can shine on the arena set up on Myriad Rivers Island, there is a chance to become a guest elder of the Lian family and learn their secret arts. Ah...my sister went there alone because of this.
师妹此番去了千流岛以后，已经很久没有音讯了...也不知道现在情况如何。¤After my sister went to Myriad Rivers Island, there has been no news of her for a long time... I wonder how things are now.
这千流岛位于千流海域，岛上的连家也算是无尽之海上的一大势力，传承的功法神通颇有几分威名。¤This Myriad Rivers Island is located in the Thousand Streams Sea, and the Lian family on the island is also a major force in the Endless Sea. Their inherited techniques and divine skills are quite renowned.
这是一片沉在海底的废墟。你朝着反光的方向游去，最终找到了一座残破的祭坛，其上插着一块半透明的“水晶”。¤This is a ruin that lies at the bottom of the sea. Swimming towards the glimmer, you eventually come across a dilapidated altar, on which is placed a semi-translucent crystal.
一道海底的反光引起了你的注意，你随即便潜入海中，打算一探究竟。¤A reflection under the sea caught your attention, prompting you to immediately dive in to find out what's going on.
也有可能不是矿石…我隐隐感觉这不是凡物。带去采筠阁问问吧，或许那里的人会认识。¤It's possible that this isn't just an ordinary ore... I have a feeling there's more to it. Let's take it to Caegyun Pavilion and ask around. Perhaps someone there will know more about it.
这是…一种特殊的矿石？但为何要放在祭坛上？¤This is... a special kind of ore? But why is it placed on the altar?
也有可能不是矿石…我隐隐感觉这不是凡物。先带在身上吧，说不定有什么人能鉴别此物。¤It may not be a mineral... I have a faint feeling that it's not ordinary. Let's carry it with us for now, maybe someone can identify it later.
救助也好，劫财也罢，善与恶只在一念间，随心而动即可。¤Whether it's for rescue or robbery, good and evil are only a thought away. Move according to your heart's desire.
也不知掌门何时闭关归来...化尘之道讲求中庸二字，你且慢慢体悟。¤I don't know when the Master will return from seclusion... Cultivation emphasizes the principle of being moderate, so take your time to understand it gradually.
天机阁每次都在伴月楼举办竞拍大会，佳品众多但还是狼多肉少。不知我的积蓄够不够拍下一件……¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion always holds auctions at the Moon House, with many excellent items but fierce competition. I wonder if my savings are enough to purchase something...
那可是每次东石谷最值得期待的活动了。拍卖品皆是由天机阁精心挑选，总能让人眼界大开。¤That is the most anticipated event of East Stone Valley every time. The auction items are carefully selected by The Heavenly Machine Pavilion, and always expand people's horizons.
此谷东边那栋最高的木雕塔楼便是。听说打从有东石古盛会就存在了，百年过去依然崭新无恙，想来是有仙法护持吧。¤The tallest wooden tower on the east side of this valley is said to be the site of the Dongshi ancient prosperity assembly. After a hundred years, it is still intact and new, indicating the protection of immortal powers.
你杀一儆百，那些原本虎视眈眈的修士也忌惮许多，不敢上前试探。¤You kill one to warn a hundred, those cultivators who were once watching from the sidelines are now much more cautious and dare not come forward to test.
这是一个{$Var1}的洞窟，你虽然只是简单在洞窟内勘察了一番，但已经察觉到这里实际上是一处中等规模的矿脉。¤This is a cave of {$Var1}, and although you only made a simple survey inside, you have realized that this is actually a medium-sized vein of ore.
必须在其它势力发现这处矿脉前，尽快将这个消息回禀宗门。¤Before other factions discover this vein of ore, it is essential to quickly report this news to the sect.
既然如此，我等便前往别处寻觅机缘了。¤Since that's the case, we'll go search for opportunities elsewhere.
回头看向幸存的三人——他们眉头紧皱、暗自神伤，即便刚捡回一条命，他们也半点都开心不起来。¤Looking back at the surviving three people, their brows furrowed and they were secretly grieving. Even though they had just saved their lives, they couldn't be happy at all.
但若不如此做，我们连一丝重生的机会都没有。¤But if we don't do this, we won't even have a chance at rebirth.
前辈既然想要逆天造化术，又不自然地背着一把剑，其中联系大致便能猜到了。¤Senior, since you want the Defying Good Fortune Technique and are carrying a sword unnaturally, the connection between the two can be roughly guessed.
几千年下来，化神强者倒是遇见不少，可没有一个愿意在这三冥海飞升，我也拿不出什么东西与他们交易，便只得作罢。¤Over the past few thousand years, I have come across many powerful beings who have undergone deity transformation, but none of them were willing to ascend in the Three Dark Seas. I also couldn't offer anything for trade with them, so I had to give up.
道友，再会了。¤Fellow Daoist, goodbye for now.
建岛前的确如此。但在约莫万余年之前，幽冥海上便有一位化神巅峰强者渡劫。¤That was indeed the case before the island was built. However, around 10,000 years ago, a deity transformation peak powerhouse crossed the tribulation on the deep hell sea.
你知道我铁剑中藏有魂体？邀请我来此又有何目的？¤Do you know that my iron sword contains a soul body? What is your purpose for inviting me here?
岛主最先回过神来，走上前向你作了一揖。¤The island master was the first to come back to his senses and stepped forward to give you a bow.
就在几近丧失信心之时，我遇见了幽荧。¤Just when I was on the verge of losing faith, I met Ghost.
当然为了防备突发情况，我也留有后手，只不过…结局你也看到了。¤Of course, in order to guard against unexpected situations, I also have a backup plan, but...you also saw the outcome.
…你们今后可有何打算？¤What are your plans for the future?
哈哈哈，这岛主所说我本就没有报太大的期望，反倒是你这片心意让我很是感动。¤Hahaha, the island master didn't have too high expectations of me from the start, but your kind thoughtfulness moves me.
与其靠别人，不如指望你飞升来得实在。¤Instead of relying on others, it's better to rely on your own ascension.
邀请前辈来此自然有平衡风险的考虑，但让每一位贡献突出之人都能重获新生，本身就是我最初的打算。¤Inviting senior here naturally carries the risk of balance, but allowing every outstanding contributor to have a new life was my original intention.
此等人物，你是如何信过她的？¤How did you ever trust such a person?
你当初说这阴魂岛乃是自古以来便有的，现在看来恐怕所言非实吧？¤You said that this Ghost Island has existed since ancient times, but now it seems that what you said may not be true, right?
我？我还差得远呢。¤Me? I still have a long way to go.
只可惜他最终渡劫失败，未能开启飞升通道。¤Unfortunately, he ultimately failed his tribulation and was unable to open the path to ascension.
此番还是多亏了前辈，不然我等定会命丧于此。¤Thanks to Senior, we were saved this time. Otherwise, we would have met our end here.
虽然落差很大，不过最差也就是回到建岛之前的状态罢了。¤Although there is a large gap, at worst, it is just returning to the state before the island was built.
这样，至少为岛上出过力的人能有机会重生。至于其他魂体，便只能怪他们出力不够了…¤In this way, at least those who have contributed to the island will have a chance to be reborn with a soul body. As for other soul bodies, they can only blame themselves for not contributing enough...
你已经超越了许多人，我对你可是很有信心的。¤You have surpassed many people, I have a lot of confidence in you.
你既然想要逆天造化术，又不自然地背着一把剑，其中联系大致便能猜到了。¤If you are seeking the Defying Good Fortune technique while carrying a sword so unnaturally, the correlation between the two can be roughly guessed as Opposing Heaven.
于是，我想办法给她收集神阴石，她飞升时助我重生，我们便一拍即合、创立了这座阴魂岛。¤So, I found a way to collect shenyin stones for her. She assisted my reincarnation when she ascended, and then we joined hands to establish Ghost Island.
此番还是多亏了道友，不然我等定会命丧于此。¤Thanks to my fellow daoist, I and my companions have escaped certain death this time.
客套话就不必多说了，此事的来龙去脉，岛主是否该交代一下了？¤There's no need for formalities. Could the island lord explain the background and details of this matter?
道友有什么想知道的尽管问，在下一定知无不言。¤Dear fellow daoist, feel free to ask any questions you may have. I will definitely answer with nothing held back.
此前你不是说，化神强者都不愿意在三冥海飞升？¤Didn't you say before that deity transformation experts were unwilling to ascend in the Three Dark Seas?
那便祝岛主好运了。¤Then I wish Island Master good luck.
当时我拿着《逆天造化术》，在三冥海四处寻找有机会飞升之人。¤At that time, I held the Defying Good Fortune technique and searched the Three Dark Seas for anyone with the potential to transcend.
我是说…此次恐怕让你失望了…¤I'm afraid I'll disappoint you this time...
你所说的幽荧究竟是何人？¤Who is the ghost you're talking about?
…但愿吧。¤Hopefully.
但此事却让我看见了一丝希望。想必只要足够耐心，总会有修士会选择在这三冥海飞升吧。¤But this has given me a glimmer of hope. I believe that as long as one is patient enough, there will always be cultivators who choose to ascend in the Three Dark Seas.
我能有什么不好的？¤What's wrong with me having something good?
其实她不止一种人格，我们相识之时，冷静与善良的人格才是主导。¤Actually, she has more than one persona. When we first met, her calm and kind persona was in control.
便是刚才你击败之人。¤That was the person you just defeated.
如此他们才有动力收集神阴石，借此也能吸引三冥海上的魂体来此。¤Only by doing so will they have the motivation to collect Shenyin Stones, which can also attract soul bodies from the Three Dim Sea.
若按照当初的设想，我宣布一个贡献门槛，任何达到此门槛之人都能重获新生。¤If I follow my original plan, I will declare a contribution threshold, and anyone who reaches this threshold can be reborn.
那岛上的体系又当如何？你最开始说是为了互相帮助，现在看来，恐怕是一场骗局吧？¤What about the system on that island? You said at the beginning that it was for mutual help, but now it seems like it's probably a scam?
邀请你来此自然有平衡风险的考虑，但让每一位贡献突出之人都能重获新生，本身就是我最初的打算。¤Inviting you here naturally involves considering the risk of balance, but allowing every outstanding contributor to regain new life was my original intention.
岛主一行人走后，你便开始沟通铁剑中的魏无极。¤After the group of island masters left, you began to communicate with Wei Wuji inside the iron sword.
当时她恰巧在寻找飞升的办法，并且一定要在三冥海中飞升，只是需要大量的神阴石帮助。¤At that time, she happened to be searching for a way to ascend, and she had to ascend in the Three Dark Seas. She just needed a large amount of Shenyin Stone to help.
前辈有什么想知道的尽管问，在下一定知无不言。¤Senior, feel free to ask anything you want to know. I will definitely answer without keeping anything hidden.
此间事了，你便继续踏上了旅程。¤After this matter has ended, you may continue on your journey.
当然为了防备突发情况，我也留有后手，只不过…结局前辈也看到了。¤Of course, to guard against unexpected situations, I do have a back-up plan, but... senior also saw the outcome.
这阴魂岛乃是我与幽荧相识之后才创立的。¤Ghost Island was founded by me after I became acquainted with Ghost Light.
更何况，此前并非没有修士在三冥海渡劫。¤Moreover, there were cultivators who underwent tribulation in the Sanming Sea previously.
幽荧对神阴石的需求量极大，究竟要如何收集足够的神阴石？¤The demand for "ghost" is great, how can we collect enough "shenyin stone"?
前辈，后会有期。¤Senior, we will see each other again in the future.
除开此法能达到幽荧的需求，我想不到更好的方式。¤Apart from using this method to achieve the needs of ghost, I cannot think of a better way.
确实，按照那轩岚诺所说，这麒麟血一开始就是他主导的。¤Indeed, according to that Xuan Lannuo, the Qilin blood was under his dominance from the beginning.
（是啊，他连诛仙剑都能先行搁置。）¤(Yes, he can even put aside the Immortal Sword.)
那我下去了，徒弟后面的交给你了。¤I'll go down now, you take care of the disciple behind me.
此次你孤身犯险，破坏了古神教的阴谋，这些都是我的收藏，你收下。¤This time you risked everything and disrupted the conspiracy of the Ancient God Sect. These are all my treasures, so please take them.
而且，更是他师傅所求。但最后他反倒是为了炼制炼妖散连那滴麒麟血都不要了。¤Moreover, it was what his master requested. But in the end, he even gave up a drop of Qilin blood just to refine the demon refining powder.
不过，我更关心此人的师傅？钟师兄、麟尊前辈，你们有了解过玄骨的师傅么？¤However, I am more concerned about this person's master. Senior Brother Zhong, Senior Lin Zun, have you ever heard of Xuan Gu's master?
我去游历的时候也没听说过。¤I haven't heard of it when I went on my travels.
说不准下次见面这妖人就要是化神大能了。¤It can't be said for sure, but the next time we meet this demon might have already undergone a deity transformation.
接下来我会请人留心的。¤Next, I will ask someone to be careful.
若那完整的炼妖散真有他所说的玄妙，这蜕凡化神的机会是比什么都重要。¤If the complete demon refining powder really has the mysterious effect he mentioned, then the opportunity for deity transformation is more important than anything else.
嗯...我也不甚了解，在此之前也没有流传过玄骨究竟是何师承。¤Um...I don't know much about it either, and there hasn't been any record of who was the master of Xuan Gu before this.
没想到玄骨此人倒是下了一盘大棋，所图不小嘛。¤I didn't expect Xuan Gu to have made such a big move, his ambitions must not be small.
傻鸟你想多了，蜕凡化神要是一剂外物就能成功，也不会有这仙凡之别了。¤Silly bird, you're thinking too much. Deity transformation isn't simply achieved by ingesting an external substance. Otherwise, there would be no difference between immortals and mortals.
你们回来的好快，那玄古门怎么了？¤You guys came back so fast, what happened to the Profound Ancient Sect?
此番巫山之行多谢{shidi}了，后面的由我来善后吧。¤Thank you {shidi} for accompanying me on this trip to Mt. Wu. I'll take care of everything from here on out.
是我技不如人，要杀要剐随你们吧！¤My skills are inferior to yours, do as you please with killing or butchering me!
龙湛长老，我并非滥杀无辜之人，到此来只想得知龙族到底为何对百里家穷追不舍？¤Elder Longzhan of the Dragon Clan, I am not someone who indiscriminately kills the innocent. I have come here only to find out why the Dragon Clan has been relentlessly pursuing the Baili Family.
那人的声音几近癫狂。岛主原先欣喜的神情一扫而空，而他身边的魂体听到这话瞬间全都慌了神。¤The man's voice was almost crazy. The island lord's previously joyful expression vanished, while the soul bodies beside him all panicked upon hearing these words.
我若不能飞升，你们的图谋岂不是也落空了？¤If I cannot ascend, won't your plan also fail?
你将信将疑地看着他们，静待事情的进展。¤You watched them skeptically, waiting for the situation to develop.
你抬头望向天空——那本应洁白如玉的月亮，竟被黑暗吞噬了一角。¤You look up at the sky and notice that the usually pristine moon has been partially devoured by darkness.
这月蚀与你图谋之事究竟有何关联？那飞升之人又所在何处？¤What is the connection between this lunar eclipse and your intentions? And where is the person who is ascending located?
她纵然一跃，跳入空间裂缝中，通道也随之消失，天空中只剩下他那张狂的笑声回荡。¤Even if she leapt and jumped into the spatial crack, the passage disappeared along with her. Only his wild laughter echoed in the sky.
李司魂，再分一些给我。¤Li Souhun, give me some more.
（邪魅地）怎么会？不够，还差一点。¤(With a sinister smile) How can this be? Not enough, it's still a bit lacking.
笑话，本座还用得着你们帮忙？¤Joke, do I still need your help?
没时间了，快。¤No time left, hurry up.
一时间，岛上遍地哀嚎。只有岛主一行人得以幸免。¤For a time, the island was filled with wailing. Only the island master and his group were spared.
此言一出，魂体们金紧张的情绪有所缓和，你也趁此机会道出了自己的疑虑。¤Upon hearing these words, the tension in the souls' bodies eased slightly. Seizing this opportunity, you voiced your own concerns.
呵呵，道友莫急，此人诸位马上就会见到了。¤Hehe, fellow daoist, don't worry. You will soon meet this person.
吸收完魂体过后，她反手将阴气注入气旋中，形成了一个灰白色的巨型通道，直通天际。¤After absorbing the soul body, she immediately injected Yin Qi into the cyclone, forming a giant gray-white passageway that led straight to the sky.
“竟是月蚀？不知道岛主究竟打的什么算盘…”¤Could it be a lunar eclipse? I wonder what the Island Master is scheming…
李司魂并没有过多犹豫，一把将除开向之恒与无尘以外的魂体全部推出。那通道也离月亮更近了一分.。¤Lee Soul did not hesitate too much and pushed out all the soul bodies except for Xiang Zhiheng and Dust. The passage also got one step closer to the moon.
尽管他们三人看上去实力不俗，但在这恐怖的吸力下却如风中的秋叶一般无力，顷刻间便被卷去。¤Although the three of them appeared to have impressive strength, they were powerless against the terrifying suction force, and were swept away like autumn leaves in the wind in just a moment.
除开给你的神阴石，你不是说一千魂体足矣？¤Apart from the shenyin stone I gave you, didn't you say that one thousand soul bodies would suffice?
你将信将疑地退至一旁，静待事情的进展。¤You skeptically stepped back to wait for the development of the situation.
由于是受到岛主的邀约，你径直向岛内飞了过去。¤Due to an invitation from the island owner, you flew straight to the island.
岛主紧张中又略带兴奋的神情，让你感到一丝怪异。¤The island owner's tense yet slightly excited expression makes you feel a little strange.
岛上一阵惊呼声传来，只见一道人影突兀地出现在半空——虽然能认出那是幽荧，但她的表情却与之前截然不同。¤A cry of surprise came from the island, and a figure suddenly appeared in mid-air it was Ghost. However, her expression was completely different from before.
月亮已被吞噬了九成。听到这话，李司魂脸一沉，直接启动了脚下的阵法。¤The moon has been devoured by ninety percent. Upon hearing this, Lee Soul's face darkened and he activated the array beneath his feet.
既然魏无极也被牵连其中，你自然不能坐视不理。¤Since Wei Wuji is also implicated in this, you naturally cannot sit idly by.
见状，魂体们停止了议论，纷纷警惕着你的到来。¤Upon seeing you, the soul bodies ceased their discussions and became wary of your arrival.
前辈莫要冲动，若我们不在了，前辈要如何独自战胜此人？¤Senior, please don't be impulsive. If we're not here anymore, how will you be able to fight this person alone?
我等只需在通道打开之时，运起逆天造化术即可。¤We only need to activate the Defying Good Fortune technique when the channel opens.
这一切发生的太快，让你来不及多想。¤All of this happened too quickly, leaving you no time to think.
面对突然起来的异象，岛内的魂体们大多都惴惴不安。岛主一行人也聚在一处、小声地议论着。¤Faced with the sudden anomaly, most of the soul bodies on the island were apprehensive. The island master and his group also gathered together, whispering and discussing.
（邪魅地）敬酒不吃，就这破阵也想挡住我？¤(With a sinister smile) You won't even drink to my toast, but you still think this breaking formation can stop me?
既然你从一开始便不在乎别人的死活，此刻下去陪他们，你应该也没有任何怨言吧？¤Since you didn't care about the lives of others from the beginning, you shouldn't have any complaints about going down with them now, right?
道友，如此下去，你铁剑中的魂体定然也无法逃脱。现在出手，我等还能掩护一二。¤Fellow Daoist, if this continues, the soul body in your iron sword will surely not escape. If you make a move now, we can still provide some cover for you.
只见李司魂仰天长叹了一声，脸上尽是辛酸与无奈。¤I saw Li Sihun let out a long sigh, looking up at the sky with a face filled with bitterness and helplessness.
想不到前辈已然突破化神修为，真当是可喜可贺！¤I didn't expect my senior to have already achieved a breakthrough in deity transformation cultivation. This is truly a joyous occasion!
“这…难道岛主一开始便打算牺牲掉这些魂体？”¤Could it be that the Island Lord was planning to sacrifice these soul bodies from the very beginning?
你没有刻意收敛修为，岛主马上便察觉到了你的境界。¤You haven't deliberately restrained your cultivation, and the island lord immediately detected your realm.
（邪魅地）这种事情谁说得准？¤(Charmingly) Who can say for sure about such things?
事态尚未明了，切勿高兴太早。¤The situation is not yet clear, do not be too happy too soon.
如今给你的数目，可远远不止一千了。¤Now the number given to you is far more than one thousand.
言罢，他直接放弃了抵抗。剩下两人也没能支撑多久便也随之而去。整个阴魂岛上只剩下你们二人。¤Without saying another word, he gave up the fight. The remaining two people couldn't hold on for much longer and followed suit. The entire Ghost Island was now left with just the two of you.
一阵惊呼声传来，只见一道人影突兀地出现在半空——她通体漆黑，却是白发白眸，看上去甚是诡异。¤There came a sudden cry of surprise, only to see a figure suddenly appearing in midair——she was jet black, yet had white hair and white pupils, looking quite eerie.
说着，岛主又简要介绍起那些魂体为阴魂岛所作出的贡献。他紧张中又略带兴奋的神情，让你感到一丝怪异。¤As he spoke, the island master briefly introduced the contributions made by those soul bodies to the ghost island. His nervous yet slightly excited expression made you feel a bit strange.
任何人看到这空间裂缝恐怕都只会有逃跑的念头。所幸你相距甚远，这裂缝未能波及到你。¤Anyone who sees this spatial crack would probably only have the idea of escape. Fortunately, you are far away and this crack has not affected you.
言罢，一股针对魂体的恐怖吸力瞬间爆开，李司魂脚下的阵法只抵抗了顷刻，便被损坏殆尽。¤After speaking, a terrifying suction targeted towards his soul body instantly erupted. The array beneath Lee Soul's feet could only hold out for a moment before it was completely damaged beyond repair.
（邪魅地）我来也！嘁嘁嘁嘁嘁嘁！！！¤I am here, charmingly sinister! Tsk tsk tsk tsk tsk!!! 
不错！看来她还是能信守承诺，我这阵法暂时是用不上了。¤Not bad! It seems like she can still keep her promise. I won't need this array for now.
来不及了，快。¤It's too late, hurry.
道友莫要冲动，若我们不在了，你要如何独自战胜此人？¤Fellow Daoist, please do not act recklessly. If we are not here, how will you be able to defeat this opponent on your own?
诸位莫慌，这位道友也是对阴魂岛有功之人，来此的目的也与我们相同。¤Fellow daoists, do not panic. This fellow daoist is also a person who has made meritorious contributions to Ghost Island, and their purpose for coming here is the same as ours.
前辈莫急，此人诸位马上就会见到了。¤Senior, please don't worry. You will soon meet this person.
这已经是老夫的底线，你莫要欺人太甚。¤This is already my bottom line, don't go too far.
“这便是月环蚀吧，果然如荧儿所说的一样。”¤This is the lunar eclipse, just as Ying Er had said.
此时，月亮已被黑影吞噬殆尽，只剩下最外层的银色圆环。就好像打开了一个通道，却不知通向何方。¤At this moment, the moon had been devoured by the black shadows, leaving only the outermost silver ring. It was like a pathway had opened, but its destination was unknown.
岛主一向诡计多端，此言无非只是想利用你挡住那人罢了，你并没有理会他。¤The island master has always been full of tricks. He just wants to use you to stop that person. You didn't pay attention to him.
当时我们似乎不是这样约定的吧？¤Wasn't that not how we agreed upon things back then?
（邪魅地）嘁嘁嘁，要怪就怪你们的岛主吧。¤(Temptingly) Tsk tsk tsk, blame it on your island master if you must.
（邪魅地）还差一点，你将身边两人也推给我，快。¤(Devilishly) Not quite there yet, push the two people next to you towards me, quickly.
…罢了，天要亡我。¤...So be it, heaven wants to destroy me.
只见她一手划过天际，高空中随即被撕开了一道空间裂缝。其中中吐出一阵阵毁灭性极强的空间乱流，令人毛骨悚然。¤I saw her raise one hand and draw a line across the sky, which then tore open a spatial rift in the high-altitude area. A series of extremely destructive spatial turbulence emerged from it, creating a bone-chilling sensation.
不知是用了什么招式，只一挥手，气旋周围成百上千的魂体便被她尽数吸入体内，只有岛主一行人得以幸免。¤I'm not sure what technique she used, but with just a wave of her hand, hundreds and thousands of soul bodies around the whirlwind were absorbed into her body. Only the island lord and his companions were spared.
（邪魅地）嘁嘁嘁嘁！就是现在！我感受到了！¤(Tempting) Tsk tsk tsk tsk! It's right now! I can feel it!
见到你，岛主便立刻迎了上来。¤Upon seeing you, the island master immediately greeted you.
你能感受到这个阵法防御力之强大，只有玄武剑阵能与之比拟。¤You can feel the immense defense of this array, only the Black Tortoise Sword Array can match it.
岛主，当年卖的关子，现在也该解释清楚了吧？¤Island Master, it's time to explain the mystery you sold back then, shouldn't you?
为了这一刻，我们不知苦等了多少年。现在只需等她飞升成功，我等便可重获新生！¤For this moment, we have endured countless years of waiting in hardship. Now, as long as she succeeds in her ascension, we can be reborn anew!
不知是用了什么招式，只一挥手，气旋周围成百上千的魂体便被她尽数吸入体内。¤Without knowing what technique she used, she simply waved her hand and all of the souls within the surrounding cyclone were absorbed into her soul body.
阁下究竟有何神通，能如此张狂？便让在下领教一二吧。¤What divine skill do you possess, that you dare to be so arrogant? Allow me to experience it firsthand.
你与岛主一行人的关系也没有多深，此时自然是要保得自己周全。¤Your relationship with the island lord and his group isn't very deep, so naturally you have to protect yourself.
阴魂岛上原本就阴郁的色调变得愈加昏暗，阴气也变得愈加浓郁。¤The originally gloomy atmosphere on Ghost Island became even darker, and the Yin energy became even more intense.
前辈，此时出手，我等尚可帮前辈一把，机不可失啊。¤Senior, at this moment, we can still assist you. Don’t miss this opportunity to act.
片刻后，月亮已被吞噬过半，岛上的阴气已然开始有凝实的迹象。¤After a moment, the moon had already been devoured by more than half and there were solid signs of yin qi starting to condense on the island.
你与岛主一行人并没有太多交情，便远远地站在了一旁，静待其中变化。¤You didn't have much relationship with the island master and his party, so you stood aside and waited quietly for the changes to happen.
道友来的正是时候，这边请。¤Fellow Daoist, you've come right on time. Please come this way.
于是，你趁着那人还未注意到你时扬长而去，此间的一切都与你再无瓜葛。¤So, you take advantage of the person not noticing you and leave quickly, with nothing to do with this place.
尽管他们三人看上去实力不俗，但在这恐怖的吸力下却如风中的秋叶一般飘摇，就连铁剑中的魏无极也未能幸免。¤Although the three of them appeared to have formidable strength, they swayed like autumn leaves in the wind under the terrifying suction force. Even Wei Wuji, who held a sword of iron, was not spared.
百年玄冰晶...此地的水灵气浓度确实很高。看来{$NpcName}所说不假，我得小心些妖王。¤Hundred year xuan bing crystal... The concentration of water spiritual energy here is indeed very high. It seems that what {$NpcName} said is true. I must be careful of the demon kings.
百年炎晶...此地的火灵气浓度确实很高。看来{$NpcName}所说不假，我得小心些妖王。¤The concentration of fire spirits in this area is indeed very high, possibly due to the presence of Hundred-Year Flame Crystals. It seems that what {$NpcName} said was true. I must be careful of the demon kings.
槐魄石...此地的木灵气浓度确实很高。看来{$NpcName}所说不假，我得小心些妖王。¤Sophorite... The concentration of wood spirit energy here is indeed very high. It seems that what {$NpcName} said is true. I need to be careful of the demon kings.
玄鑫石...此地的金灵气浓度确实很高。看来{$NpcName}所说不假，我得小心些妖王。¤Xuanxin stone... the concentration of Jin Ling Qi is indeed very high in this place. It seems that what {$NpcName} said is true. I have to be careful of the Demon King.
百年岩玉髓...此地的土灵气浓度确实很高。看来{$NpcName}所说不假，我得小心些妖王。¤Hundred-year Centennial Chalcedony... The earth spirit here is indeed very strong. It seems that what {$NpcName} said is true, I must be careful of the demon king.
主药用的是{color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=939}{/color}，辅药为{color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=940}{/color}，至于药引则是{color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=941}{/color}，需得按{color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=942}{/color}的比例添加，方可炼制成功。¤The main medicine used is {color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=939}{/color}, with auxiliary medicine being {color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=940}{/color}. As for the medicinal herbs, they are {color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=941}{/color}, and must be added in the proportion specified by {color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=942}{/color} to successfully refine the medicine.
该到了向丹炉内添置辅药的时候了，你应该...？¤It's time to add auxiliary medicine to the alchemy furnace, what should you do...?
索性这次最重要的丹药保住了，我也不与你多计较这些，回去好好反省吧。¤In any case, I have successfully kept the most important pill this time. I will not argue with you about these matters anymore. Go back and reflect on yourself.
这主药本座已经添进丹炉，两日后先添入辅药，再过五日添入药引，如此炼制七七四十九日后，方可成丹，你可记下了？¤I have already added the main medicine into the alchemy furnace. In two days, I will add the secondary medicine, and then five days later I will add the medicine catalyst. After refining for a total of seventy-seven days, the pill will be complete. Do you remember?
你将{$fysl1}株{SayStcVal=940}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$fysl1} plants with a {SayStcVal=940} into the alchemy furnace, and then quickly continued to fan the flames...
炼丹是最忌讳寒热冲突，放错了药引就会导致废丹，我这一炉上好的丹药都毁在你手上了，你可有把我先前的嘱托放在心上？¤Alchemy is most taboo with the conflict of hot and cold, using the wrong herbs can lead to abolished pills. All the pills from this batch have been ruined by you. Did you not keep my previous instructions in mind?
你拿起扇子，站到丹炉边慢慢地扇了起来...¤You pick up the fan and slowly start fanning at the alchemy furnace.
看你对草药药性不甚了解。此物你就收下吧。¤Since you don't seem to have much knowledge of herbs, you can have this one.
哼，现在倒是知道错了。¤Hmph, now you know you're wrong.
你将{$dysl}株{$yaoying1}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$dysl} stems of {$yaoying1} into the alchemy furnace, and then continued tirelessly fanning the flames...
你转身欲走，却听他叫住你，思索片刻从储物袋中取出一本书籍向你扔来。¤You turn around to leave, but he stops you and after a moment's thought, he takes out a book from his storage pouch and throws it at you.
你将{$dysl1}株{SayStcVal=941}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$dysl1} {SayStcVal=941} into the alchemy furnace, then continued to fan the flames without stopping...
好了，本座还有其他要务在身，就先走一步了。等时候到了，我自会回来验收。¤Alright, I have other matters to attend to, so I'll take my leave for now. When the time comes, I'll come back to inspect.
你揭开丹炉，却只闻到一股难以形容的奇怪气味。由于数种药性的强烈冲突，丹药并没有被炼制成功，只结成了数颗布满裂纹的废丹。¤You open the alchemy furnace, but all you smell is a strange and indescribable odor. Due to the strong conflict between several medicinal properties, the pill was not successfully refined and only formed a number of abolished pills with cracks all over them.
你揭开丹炉，一部分过剩的药性在炉底结成了一层厚厚的药渣，好在还是成功的炼制出了{$dysl}颗通体浑圆的丹药。¤You open the alchemy furnace and find a thick layer of medicine dregs formed at the bottom of level 1 due to excess medicinal properties. Fortunately, you still successfully refined {$dysl} round pills.
那好，从今日起，就罚你在这炼丹房内看火三月，好好反省。¤Alright, from today onwards, I will punish you to stay in the alchemy room for three months and reflect on yourself.
你来得正好，老夫正准备起炉炼丹，你且过来为老夫看着这炉火，不得有半点差池。¤You've come at just the right time. I'm about to start alchemy. Come here and keep an eye on this furnace for me. Don't let any mistakes happen.
哎...过而不能知，是为不智。¤Alas, to pass through without being aware of it, is the same as being foolish.
弟子错了，还请长老责罚...¤Disciple was wrong, please punish this elder...
你揭开丹炉，隐约有一阵淡淡的药香飘过。可是丹药并没有被炼制成功，只在炉底形成了一层厚厚的药渣。¤You opened the alchemy furnace, and a faint medicinal fragrance drifted out. However, the pill was not successfully refined, and only a thick layer of medicine dregs formed at the bottom of the level 1 furnace.
你将{$dys2}株{SayStcVal=941}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$dys2} plant with {SayStcVal=941} into the alchemy furnace, and then continued to fan the flames without stopping...
你将{$dysl}株{SayStcVal=941}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$dysl} plants of {SayStcVal=941} into the alchemy furnace and continued to vigorously fan the flames without stopping...
接下来本座说的话你得好好记下，若是到时候弄错火候或者加错了药，把本座这炉丹炼废了，本座可是要罚你的。¤The words I am about to say, you must remember well. If you make a mistake in the heating or add the wrong ingredients later on, and ruin this furnace of alchemy, I will punish you.
慢着。¤Wait a moment.
该到了向丹炉内添置药引的时候了，你应该...？¤It's time to add medicine references to the alchemy furnace, what should you do?
你将{$fysl3}株{SayStcVal=940}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$fysl3} plant to the alchemy furnace, and continued to vigorously fan the flames...
哼，你可知自己错在何处？¤Hmph, do you know where you went wrong?
不错，不错...这几日辛苦师侄了。这颗化瘀丹就额外奖赏给你，回去好好休息吧。¤Not bad, not bad... Nephew, you've worked hard these past few days. Take this novice healing pill as an extra reward and go rest well at home.
你在炼丹房内扇了整整三个月的炉火，精疲力尽，但心境却得到了一些磨炼。{color=#d0380a}心境+1{/color}¤You fanned the furnace fire in the alchemy room for three months straight, exhausted but having gained some mental fortitude. {color=#d0380a}Mental state +1{/color}.
你将{$fysl2}株{SayStcVal=940}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added {$fysl2} plant into the alchemy furnace {SayStcVal=940}, then continued to fan the fire without pause...
你将{$fysl1}株{$caoyao2}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added the {$caoyao2} plant to the alchemy furnace, and then hurriedly continued to fan the flames... {$fysl1}.
该到了向丹炉内添置{SayStcVal=940}的时候了，辅药的数量是...？¤It's time to add {SayStcVal=940} to the alchemy furnace. How many supplementary medicinal ingredients do we need?
焰火褪去，一阵浓郁的药香飘过，{$dysl}颗通体浑圆的丹药便光彩夺目的出现在了药鼎之内。¤As the fireworks faded, a strong scent of medicine wafted through the air, and {$dysl} perfectly round pill shone brilliantly within the medicine cauldron.
你将{$fysl1}株{$caoyao1}添入了丹炉之中，然后便马不停蹄地继续扇起了火来...¤You added the {$fysl1} plants of {$caoyao1} into the alchemy furnace, then tirelessly continued to fan the flames...
多...多谢前辈。¤Thank you very much, senior.
你来到炉边，拿起风火扇慢慢地扇了起来...¤You arrived at the furnace and picked up the Wind and Fire Fan, slowly fanning it...
该到了向丹炉内添置{SayStcVal=941}的时候了，药引的数量是...？¤It's time to add {SayStcVal=941} into the alchemy furnance. What quantity of medicinal materials will be used as the alchemical catalyst?
这次本座要炼制的是{color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=938}{/color}，这一炉一共要炼制{color=#d0380a}{$dysl}{/color}颗。¤This time, I am going to refine {color=#d0380a}{SayStcVal=938}{/color}. In total, I will refine {color=#d0380a}{$dysl}{/color} pieces.
炼丹之时若是草药放错，轻则浪费材料，药性过剩产生多余无用的药渣，重则药性不足，无法成丹。¤During alchemy, if the herbs are placed incorrectly, it can result in wasted materials or an excess of useless medicine dregs due to an excess of medicinal properties. On the other hand, insufficient medicinal properties can prevent the formation of elixirs.
连最重要的辅药都会拿错，我这一炉上好的丹药都毁在你手上了，你可有把我先前的嘱托放在心上？¤You even take the wrong auxiliary medicine, all the good pills I made are destroyed in your hands. Have you forgotten my previous instructions?
谢长老。¤Thank you, Elder.
你来得正好，本座正在起炉，此番炼制丹药还得花费不少时日，你就待在这里，在本座回来前替本座看火添药。¤You arrived just in time, I am currently starting the furnace. This time making a potion will take quite some time, so you stay here and add medicine to the fire, while waiting for my return.
多谢你当日的那些话点醒了我，这份我自己研制的丹方还请{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}收下，作为谢礼，希望对道友能有所帮助。¤Thank you for the words that woke me up that day. Please accept this recipe that I developed myself, {FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}, as a token of gratitude. I hope it can be of help to my fellow daoist.
宗门大比后醒悟的我离开门派云游历练，如今总算小有所成。¤After awakening from the clan competitions, I left the sect to travel and train. Now, I have finally made some progress.
咦？{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}？¤Huh? {FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}?
{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}还有什么事么？¤Is there something else, {FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}?
徐道友可唤我{FirstName}{LastName}。¤Fellow Daoist Xu, you may call upon me.{FirstName}{LastName}。
原来是徐凡师弟，看来你已经找回了自己的道。¤Originally, it's Junior Xu Fan. It seems that you have regained your Way.
正是。当初或许是我过于故步自封，忘记了本应走的路。¤Yes. Perhaps in the beginning, I was too set in my ways and forgot the path I should have taken.
或许是我过于故步自封，忘记了本应走的路。¤Perhaps because I was too rigid and forgot the path I should have taken.
在丹药的辅助下我也已经突破了筑基，同青嫣的关系也有所缓和。¤With the help of medicinal pills, I have also made a breakthrough in my foundation building. My relationship with Qing Yan has also improved.
原来是徐凡师兄，师兄看来已经找回了自己的道？¤So it was Senior Brother Xu Fan. It seems Senior Brother has regained his way?
{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}，昔日一番话令在下受益匪浅。¤{FirstName}{$TmpTalkString}, the words spoken by you in the past have greatly benefited me.
闭关几日后我终于找回了仙途伊始时的信念，离开门派云游历练，如今总算小有所成。¤After a few days of seclusion, I finally regained the faith I had when I first started to cultivate. I left the sect to travel and gain experience, and now I've finally made some progress.
咦？你是先前在连石山......¤Huh? Are you the one who was at Liangshi Mountain before...
这三把都是外门弟子可以领取的符器，{shidi}可以随意挑选一把。¤These three are runic weapons that outer disciples can obtain, {shidi} can choose one freely.
哈哈哈，没想到终于又有人能通过外门守擂的挑战了，不容易。¤Hahaha, didn't expect someone to finally pass the challenge of the Outer Sect Guarding the Peak. It's not easy.
这是门派弟子法袍，{shidi}收好。¤This is the sect disciple's mantra. Please keep it safe, {shidi}.
我想想办法看能不能把这东西拼起来，日后再来找{xiongdi}！¤I'll try to figure out a way to piece this thing together and come find my brothers later!
我在玄微剑仙的房间找到了这个，但已经碎掉了，不知道有什么用。¤I found this in the room of Sword Immortal Xuanwei, but it's already broken. I don't know what its use is.
灭了我{$shili}对前辈也没什么实质性的好处，不如我{$shili}将门派收藏的所有秘传神通及功法全数交于前辈一观。¤Eliminating my {$shili} wouldn't bring any substantial benefits to my senior. Instead, I will present to senior all the sect's hidden divine skills and techniques. Enjoy them all at your leisure.
本是他出言请求你停下毁灭的脚步，说到一半后，自己却也是陷入沉默之中。¤It was originally him who spoke to request that you stop your destructive actions, but midway through, he too fell into silence.
但前辈若是愿意放{$shili}一条生路，秘籍自会双手奉上。至于方才被打伤的长老等，我{$shili}绝不会有半点怨言。¤But if senior is willing to spare a life, the secret manual will be presented with both hands. As for the elder who was injured just now, I will not complain even if my life is {$shili} to be taken.
前辈有所不知，我{$shili}曾经也是有多位化神前辈，只是有些已然飞升，剩余的也不在世间。其中多位前辈都曾在藏经阁留下禁制，¤Senior, you may not know this, but I too had several senior predecessors who underwent deity transformation like me, although some have ascended to the heavens while the rest are no longer in this world. Many of these seniors left restrictions in the hidden manual pavilion. And I, with my {$shili}, was able to unlock them.
且慢！请听我一言！¤Wait a moment! Please hear me out!
不如，我{$shili}将门派所有秘传神通及功法交与道友...而且方才的战斗中我派未曾有修士被击杀...若是道友就此罢手，{$shili}绝无半点怨言。¤How about this, fellow daoist? I will impart all of the divine skills and techniques passed down in our sect to you, {$shili}. Moreover, none of our cultivators were killed in the recent combat. If you decide to cease your actions now, I will have no complaints whatsoever.
也不知是为战死的元婴长老而流，还是...为传承已久的门派在自己手上逐渐式微而流。¤Not sure if it was tears shed for the elder nascent soul who died in battle, or...or tears shed for the sect that had been declining in his own hands for a long time.
直到你开始不耐烦时，他才支吾着将后半句话说出口。¤Until you began to grow impatient, he finally stumbled out the second half of the sentence.
这{$shili}掌门不再言语，只是吩咐了一个弟子为你带路。而后便如驼背石人一般静止在广场上，倒是脸颊旁有两行清泪缓步而下。¤The {$shili} master remained silent, only instructing a disciple to lead you. Afterwards, he stood still on the square like a hunchbacked stone man, with two clear tears rolling down his cheeks.
这{$shili}掌门见你同意，也不再废话，赶忙在前为你引路。¤As the {$shili} master saw that you agreed, he didn't waste any more words and quickly led the way for you.
前辈且慢！请听我一言！¤Senior, hold on! Please listen to what I have to say!
灭杀了你们，这些秘籍自然也是落于我手。¤I have annihilated you all, and these secret manuals have naturally fallen into my hands.
以道友的实力，灭了我{$shili}也没什么实质性的好处，不如...¤Fellow Daoist, with your strength, there won't be any substantial benefit in wiping out my {$shili}. It would be better...
若是前辈执意要赶尽杀绝，那我也只好引动禁制毁去这些秘籍了。¤If senior insists on wiping out everything, then I'll have to activate the restrictions and destroy these secret manuals.
最近这几届猎魔试炼都有不少人死在了其中，虽说死伤在所难免，却总让我感到有一些不安。¤Recently, many people have died in the hunting and trial of demons, although casualties are inevitable, it always makes me feel uneasy.
当年青蛇还在炼气期时一次便闯通了我派的幻雾阵，那时便能看出他的不凡。¤When the Green Snake was still in the qi refining stage, he once broke through our sect's Mirage Mist Array, showing his extraordinary talent.
没准是什么稀有古代的遗物，先拿着罢...¤Maybe it's some rare ancient relic, let's hold onto it for now...
不远处是一座火山，不过其四周已然是郁郁葱葱，一片生机盎然的景象，想必已经很久没有爆发过了。¤There is a volcano not far away, but its surroundings are already lush and full of life, and it is likely that it has not erupted for a long time.
见此美景，你的脚步不由得慢了下来。四处打量下，你发现脚边的草丛里有一块黑的深邃的石碑。清理过后，只见石碑上刻满了你不认识的字。¤Upon seeing this beautiful scenery, your footsteps inevitably slowed down. Looking around, you noticed a deep black stone tablet in the grass by your feet. After clearing it off, you saw that the tablet was engraved with unfamiliar letters.
看样子又是什么古代的遗物，拿去给采筠阁那些修士鉴定一番好了...¤It looks like another ancient relic. Let's bring it to the Cultivators at Caegyun Pavilion for identification.
一阵妖风吹来...¤A gust of demonic wind blew over...
小心，此地妖气甚重，看来这里的妖兽已有{color=#d0380a}筑基期{/color}实力，以你现在的修为怕是难以应对。¤Be careful, the demonic aura here is very heavy. It seems that the spirit beasts here have already reached the {color=#d0380a}Foundation Establishment{/color} stage. With your current cultivation level, it may be difficult to deal with them.
嗯，这{SayStcVal=929}果然在这里。¤Ah, this {SayStcVal=929} is indeed here.
没准上面记录着什么重要的东西，拿去给采筠阁那些修士鉴定一番好了...¤Maybe there's something important recorded on it. Let's take it to the cultivators at Caegyun Pavilion to identify it.
山路走到一处转角，你赫然发现不远处的草丛中好似有一只旋龟。你下意识地拿出了武器，但随即便发现，那里没有丝毫灵气，只是一只沧桑的旋龟壳罢了。¤As you walk along the mountain path and turn a corner, you suddenly spot what appears to be a whirling turtle in the nearby bushes. You instinctively reach for your weapon, but soon realize that there is no spiritual energy present it's just a weathered revolving turtle shell.
没准上面记录着什么重要的东西，先拿着罢...¤Maybe there's something important recorded above, so let's take it first...
那龟壳上藤曼繁茂，只能隐隐约约看见上面有人工的痕迹。待你将藤曼清理干净，只见龟壳上刻着一些你不认识的图案。¤The vine on the turtle shell was lush and dense, and you could only vaguely see artificial traces on it. After you cleaned the vine, you could see some patterns that you didn't recognize carved on the turtle shell.
那并不是宁州修士所擅长的符箓，我也只是听个名号罢了。¤That's not the talisman that cultivators from Ningzhou are good at, I've only heard of it by name.
不知那化尘教的弟子缘何会使用这种符箓...你将此事默默记在心里。¤I wonder why disciples of the Shifting Sand Sect would use this type of talisman... Keep this in mind silently.
算你这{xiaozi}有点本事，下次见面你可就没这么走运了！¤You have some skills, {xiaozi}, but next time we meet you won't be so lucky!
那血煞符以人血为引，是{color=#d0380a}魔门常用{/color}的一种符箓。¤The blood curse talisman, which uses human blood as a catalyst, is a {color=#d0380a}commonly used occult technique in demonic sects{/color}.
奇怪...难不成这魔修和化尘教有什么关联？对了老头儿，方才你说的血煞符又是什么东西？¤Strange... Could it be that this demonic cultivator has some connection to the Shifting Sand Sect? By the way, Old Man, what exactly is a Bloodthirsty Curse Talisman that you mentioned earlier?
那魔修化作一道血光倏尔远去，你虽有心追击却也跟不上他的速度。前方的化尘教修士早已不见，而那些散布在路周围的符箓也化为碎屑，融入在沙土中了。¤The demonic cultivator transformed into a flash of blood-red light and quickly disappeared into the distance. Although you had the intention to chase after him, you couldn't keep up with his speed. The dust cultivator ahead had already disappeared, and the talismans scattered around the road had turned into debris, melting into the sand.
听见他的威胁，你顿感为免日后生事，此人决不可留，倒不如一剑结果了他。¤Upon hearing his threats, you feel the need to avoid any future troubles and realize that this person cannot be left alive. It's better to use one sword to finish him off.
禾山道...无碍，我方入仙门时倒是常与他们打交道。¤mt. harvest sect... No problem, we often interact with them when entering the immortal sect.
小的有眼不识泰山！求仙师饶了小的吧！小的这就把阮五娘请来！¤I have eyes but failed to recognize Mount Tai! I beg for the forgiveness of the immortal master! I will immediately bring Ruan Wuniang here!
只有岱舆山上的住民才知道前往岱舆山的方法，虽然我也曾住于山上，但决定追随阿山来到永安镇时，阿爹与阿娘便将关于道路的记忆从我的识海中抹去了。并非不愿告知前辈，我实在是记不得如何回去。¤Only the residents of Daiyu Mountain know the way to Daiyu Mountain. Although I used to live on the mountain, when I decided to follow A Shan to Yong'an Town, my father and mother erased the memories of the road from my consciousness. It's not that I don't want to tell my senior, I simply cannot remember how to go back.
前辈不知，这毕钟天的父亲已筑基多年，在禾山道也有一席之地，将他除掉恐怕会惹来不小的麻烦。¤Senior, you may not know this, but Bi Zhongtian's father has already built his foundation and has a place in the Mt. Harvest Sect. Eliminating him may cause considerable trouble.
阿三见你心生杀意，刚想出口阻拦，未料剑影横飞，眨眼间那毕钟天便没了生气。¤When Asan saw that you had the intention to kill, he wanted to speak out to stop you, but before he could, sword shadows flew and in the blink of an eye, Bi Zhongtian had lost his life.
你三下五除二就解决了毕钟天，他这才知道自己踢到了铁板，面色一白急忙向你告罪。¤You quickly took care of Bi Zhongtian with just a few moves, and he finally realized that he had kicked the iron plate. His face turned pale and he hurriedly apologized to you.
阮娘！¤Ruan Niang!
阮娘，快见过前辈，多亏了他我才能这么快就将你救出来。¤Ruanniang, please pay your respects to Senior. Thanks to him, I was able to save you so quickly.
你这{xiaozi}竟敢伤我！我定要叫我爹给我讨回公道！¤How dare you, kid, injure me! I will make sure my father seeks justice for me!
你祭出飞剑，一剑刺穿了毕钟天的小腿，他见退路已断，情急之下一时凶相毕露。¤You wielded your flying sword, piercing through Bi Zhongtian's calf. With no escape route, he revealed his ferocious side in a moment of desperation.
棠阿三急急迎上前，两人执手相看泪眼。你略感尴尬，不禁别过头去，正巧瞥见一旁鬼鬼祟祟想要逃跑的毕钟天。¤Tang A-san rushed forward and clasped hands with Bi Zhongtian, both of them looking at each other with tearful eyes. Feeling slightly awkward, you turned your head away, only to catch a glimpse of Bi Zhongtian looking sneaky and trying to escape.
多谢前辈救命之恩，阮娘无以为报，不如便将这匹织好的霁光锦赠与前辈吧。¤Thank you, senior, for saving my life. I have no way to repay you, so please accept this piece of beautifully woven Jiguang Brocade as a gift from me.
这匹锦缎于我并无用处，此次我本前来打听岱舆山的消息，不知五娘知道多少？¤This brocade is of no use to me. This time, I came to inquire about the news of Daiyu Mountain. I wonder how much Fifth Sister knows about it?
我幼时曾见过这种灵药，天蝉灵叶生长条件苛刻，只有山脚的玉梁桥旁才偶尔得见。虽无法回到岱舆山，但前辈若是想采得此药的话我可以尝试呼唤族人。¤When I was young, I had seen this kind of spiritual medicine before. Skyscada leaves are very difficult to grow and can only occasionally be found beside the Yuliang Bridge at the foot of Daiyu Mountain. Although we cannot return to Daiyu Mountain, if you, senior, wish to collect this medicine, I can try to call upon our fellow tribe members.
往哪逃！¤Where to Escape!
他连忙朝屋内的仓库跑去，不须多时便带出来一位衣冠楚楚的女子。¤He quickly ran towards the warehouse in the house and soon brought out a well-dressed woman.
“看来只能寄希望于阮五娘的族人了......”¤It seems we can only rely on the clan members of Ruan Wuniang now...
商讨了一番后，你决定先暂住在永安镇内，等候阮五娘与族人取得联络。¤After some discussion, you decide to temporarily reside in Yong'an town, waiting for Ruan Wuniang and her clan to make contact.
原来如此，当年许多人想查出鲛人一族的驻地好将其一网打尽，役使其生产鲛纱，却始终不得其道。没想到离山的鲛人会被抹除记忆，连他们都无法回到自己的故乡，何谈修士了。¤Ah, I see. Many people wanted to find the stronghold of the Merfolk to eradicate them and force them to produce Mermaid Silk, but they never succeeded. Who would have thought that the Merfolk who left the mountain would have their memories erased, and even they couldn't return to their homeland, let alone be cultivators.
等...¤Wait...
前辈有什么想问的，我必知无不言，言无不尽。¤Senior, is there anything you would like to ask? I will answer everything I know without holding back.
阮五娘面有难色地向棠阿三看去，后者微笑着向她点了点头，她才犹豫着开口。¤Ruan Wuniang looked at Tong Ah San with a worried expression, and the latter smiled and nodded at her before she hesitantly spoke.
看来你在宁王府过这几日竟是把脑子也懒散净了，居然带着尾巴来见我。¤It seems that you've been slacking off in Ning King's Manor these past few days, bringing your tail with you to see me.
好了，看在你帮我钓到一条大鱼的份上，奉劝你一句，宁王府乃是非之地，不可久留。¤Alright, since you helped me catch a big fish, let me give you a word of advice: Ning King's Manor is a treacherous place, where one should not stay for long.
这是本能够增加你未来结丹成功率的秘术，在这市面上可是极难寻得。¤This is a secret art that can increase your success rate in reaching the core in the future. It is very difficult to find in the market.
{xiaozi}想用这种下三滥伎俩糊弄我，门儿都没有！¤{xiaozi} is trying to use these lowly tricks to deceive me, but they won't work!
这乌靴是少见的鞋类法器，穿上后身轻如燕，遁速会快上不少。¤These black boots are a rare type of magic tool that, when worn, make the body as light as a swallow and increase speed significantly.
你收敛笑意，谢过他救命之恩。白袍修士应允几声，提起之前许诺你的酬劳。¤You restrain your smile and thank him for saving your life. The white caped cultivator nods and brings up the reward he promised you before.
这里便是与宗门长老约定的地点吧？¤Is this the location agreed upon with the elders of the sect?
看时间，长老应该已经到了啊...¤Looking at the time, the elder should have already arrived...
你很想他活？¤Do you miss him a lot?
这几颗补灵丹是少见的四品丹药，遇到危险时服下，或许能救你一命。¤These few qi caller pills are rare fourth grade pills. Taking them when in danger might save your life.
都说了让你小心身后的嘛，不要以为自己年纪大就做什么都有道理，人生按常理出牌怎么还会叫人生呢？¤I already told you to be careful behind you. Don't think that just because you're older, everything you do is reasonable. If life always goes as planned, how can it still be called life?
获得片刻喘息时间的你调整状态，重新与他周旋。几招过后你仍落于下风，就在此时你放声高呼：¤You gained a moment to catch your breath and adjusted your state before engaging with him again. After several moves, you were still at a disadvantage. At that moment, you raised your voice and shouted:
你听得心惊胆寒，正欲逃跑，却发现一只鬼手已经直奔门面而来。¤You listened, your heart trembling with fear, and just as you were about to run away, you found that a ghostly hand was already heading straight for the door.
紧急关头你扯碎卷轴，纸张断裂后绽出一道无比明亮的白光，朝那老人袭去！¤At a critical moment, you tear the scroll apart and a burst of bright white light shines out from the torn paper, heading straight towards the old man!
说时迟那时快一道凌厉剑气破空而来，将他捅了个对穿。¤Without delay, a fierce sword qi pierced through the air and ran him through.
难道当年的墨居仁也是...不知除此人外是否还有魔修卧底，看来回去后有得忙了。¤Could it be that the Mo Juren from back then was also... I wonder if there are any demonic cultivators undercover besides this person. It seems like there will be a lot of work to do when I return.
抱歉，我还有些要事与宗门内部商议，怕是无暇顾及道友。¤Sorry, I still have some important matters to discuss with the sect, so I'm afraid I won't be able to attend to my fellow daoist.
听说前阵飞流真人乘着一艘六阶灵舟出海了，那灵舟通体碧绿，光华四散，连桅杆上都刻着阵法，真是叫人眼馋得紧......¤I heard that the expert Flying Stream recently took off on a six-level Spirit Boat and set sail. The boat was deep green in color, and light and glory emanated from it, with arrays inscribed on the mast, making it quite tempting to the eye...
至于你...我并非没有给过你机会。你修为的确不俗，但演技却很拙劣。¤As for you...I haven't not given you a chance. Your cultivation is indeed impressive, but your acting skills are very poor.
想留下我，还得看你们有没有那个本事。¤If you want me to stay, it depends on whether you guys have the ability.
你扭头看去，却发现不仅仅是公孙季，与他一同前来的，有两名公孙家的长老，还有那名风雨楼中的神秘少女...¤As you turned your head, you realized that not only Gongsun Ji had come, but also two elders from the Gongsun family and the mysterious girl from Storm Manor...
说到这里，他脸上青筋凸起，气势也倏然暴增，令你不由得大感诧异。¤Speaking of this, his face's blue veins bulged, and his momentum suddenly surged, making you feel surprised.
他忽尔惨然一笑...¤He suddenly let out a wry smile...
正当你暗自戒备之时，远处却传来一个熟悉的声音。¤Just as you were wary, a familiar voice sounded in the distance.
当年他带你一起去追杀血剑宫，也只不过是想考验你的能力而已。¤Back then, when he took you to chase after Blood Sword Palace, it was just to test your abilities.
那血剑宫的长老至少与你是合作关系，你却能下此狠手？¤Those elders from Blood Sword Palace are at least in a cooperative relationship with you, yet you can make such a ruthless move?
风雨楼最大的底牌不是像你这样的天字杀手，而是从幼年便开始培养的死士。¤Storm Manor's ultimate weapon isn't assassins like you, Heaven Rank Assassins, but the dead warriors who have been trained since childhood.
待我不薄？我们这些死士不过是你们公孙家培养的棋子罢了。¤Wait, am I not important enough? We, the dead warriors, are just pawns nurtured by your Gongsun family.
琚长老，你本不必如此...当年公孙璞爷爷本就在考虑将长老之位传于你了。¤Elder Ju, you didn't have to do this... Grandfather Gongsun Pu was already considering passing the elder position to you back then.
老祖当年待你不薄，若非他的提拔，哪有你琚运琦的今日？¤Back then, the ancestor treated you well. If it weren't for his support, how could you have the status you have today, Ju Yunqi?
只有我，活了下来！¤Only I, have survived!
公孙季...玄女？¤Gongsun Ji... Mysterious girl?
他知道的太多了...若他离开宁州也就罢了，但他却偏偏对白帝收藏的那柄戮仙剑感兴趣，那就由不得我对他动杀心了。¤He knows too much... If he had just left Ningzhou, it would have been fine. But he just had to take an interest in the immortal executing sword that White Emperor has in his collection. I have no choice but to consider killing him.
亏损寿元，修炼而来的风雨楼秘术，让他们的实力突飞猛进，甚至能够跨越不同境界间的实力鸿沟，击败目标。¤The lifespan loss and cultivation-derived secret arts of Storm Manor allowed them to quickly improve their strength, even crossing the boundaries of different levels to defeat their targets.
你...你却与那血剑宫勾结...若...若非今日亲眼所见...¤You...you have colluded with the Blood Sword Palace...if...if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes today...
事已至此，我也不会束手就擒的。¤At this point, I won't just sit and wait for capture.
{$daihao}...没想到你这么强。¤{$daihao}...I didn't expect you to be so strong.
琚长老，那天魔解体大法每用一次，至少要损耗六七十年寿元，我劝你还是不要再用的好。¤Elder Ju, every time you use the Heavenly Demon Disintegration technique, it will consume at least sixty to seventy years of your lifespan. I advise you not to use it again.
若不是我坐上了这风雨楼大长老的位置，何来的资源弥补我亏空的寿元？¤If I didn't take on the position of the Fengyu Manor Supreme Elder, where else would I get the resources to make up for my lifespan deficit?
不过我倒是要谢谢你，帮我除掉了赤目这个累赘。¤However, I do want to thank you for helping me get rid of Scarlet Eye, this burden.
哦？莫非你以为能赢得了我？¤Oh? Do you really think you can beat me?
当年与我同辈进入风雨楼之人，早已死伤殆尽...¤The people who entered the Storm Manor with me back then, who were the same age as me, have long since died or been injured beyond recognition...
就这么点灵石？你打发叫花子呢？¤Just this little bit of spirit stones? Are you trying to bribe a beggar?
站住，老子允许你从这儿过了么？¤Stop, did I allow you to pass through here?
站...站...站住，打劫！¤Stop...stop...stop, this is a robbery!
又是沂山派的修士，我该怎么办呢...¤Another cultivator from Mt. Yi Sect, what should I do...
就这么点儿？算了，今天就先放你一马，滚吧！¤Is that all? Fine, I'll let you go today, get lost!
看什么看，没见过打劫的？把身上值钱的东西都交出来，大爷我就放你一马¤What are you looking at? Haven't you seen a robbery before? Hand over all the valuable things on your body and I'll let you off the hook.
那就要看你有没有这个本事了！¤That depends on whether or not you have the ability!
凭借记忆你来到正殿，只见那岛主连盛平端坐太师椅上，似乎早已感应到你的前来。¤Relying on your memory, you arrived at the main hall and saw that the island lord, Lian Shengping, was sitting on the Grand Preceptor's throne. It seemed like he had already sensed your arrival.
小友倒是有几分自知之明，自从你踏上千流岛的那刻起，你的命我便势在必得！¤My young friend, you seem to have some self-awareness. Since the moment you set foot on Myriad Rivers Island, your fate has been sealed in my grasp!
岛主在此等候，想必不是为了欢迎我吧？¤The island master awaits, surely not just to welcome me?
别来无恙，{FirstName}{LastName}小友。¤Greetings, young friend {FirstName}{LastName}.
不过下一次若是你被苗矮或是栖云发现了，可就没有我这么好说话了。¤However, if you are discovered by Miao Ai or Qiyun next time, I won't be able to speak for you like this.
栖云和苗矮平日里说话做事都颇为谨慎，这次也是打着巩固林家与星宫关系的名号，于情于理我都没有立场反对。¤Qiyun and Miao Ai are usually very cautious in their speech and actions. This time, they are also using the name of strengthening the relationship between the Lin family and the Star Palace. I have no position to oppose this both logically and emotionally.
多谢小友将心儿带回，这府中有什么不明白的可以找我解惑。{w}{w=0.5}¤Thank you, young friend, for bringing Little Xin back. If you have any questions or confusion, feel free to approach me for clarification. {w}{w=0.5}
天星双尊是大名鼎鼎的散修夫妻，星辰尊者与广微仙子二人皆是化神期修为，这点世人皆知。¤天星双尊 are a well-known wandering cultivator couple, with both Star Sovereign and Guangwei Immortal both having deity transformation cultivation. This is common knowledge among the people.
那天在长老堂外的果然是你...林沐心那丫头派你来的吧？¤That day outside the Elder Hall, it was indeed you...did that girl Lin Muxin send you?
通羽长老默不作声，只是意味深长地看着你。¤Elder Tongyu remains silent, his gaze heavy with meaning as he looks at you.
既然你有意帮助心儿调查此事，那我便给你一个机会。你们在府内行事我会想办法照应，至于能查出什么来，就看你们自己的了。¤Since you're willing to help investigate this matter for Little Xin, I'll give you a chance. I'll take care of things for you within the estate, but as for what can be found out, that's up to you.
唉，这丫头从小就不教人省心。若不是我暗中用神识护着你，凭你这点微末道行，还做不到在我们林府来去自如。¤Ah, this girl has always been a troublemaker since she was young. If it weren't for me secretly using my soul sense to protect you, with your low level of cultivation, you wouldn't be able to come and go freely in our Lin House.
心儿生性率直，望小友多担待。¤Little Xin is frank and hopes that young friend will take care of her more.
心儿不知跑哪去了，要是让二长老知道，又该责骂她了...¤Little Xin doesn't know where she ran off to. If Elder Two finds out, he'll scold her again...
大长老心里是不是也对二长老和三长老有所怀疑？¤Does the grand elder also have doubts about the second elder and the third elder in his heart?
但很少有人知道，广微仙子实则是我林家老祖。千余年前老祖与星辰前辈结为道侣，而后才有了星宫与这天星城。¤But few people know that Guangwei Fairy is actually my Lin Family's ancestor. Over a thousand years ago, the ancestor and Senior Star became Dao companions, and only then did the Star Palace and this Starsky City come into existence.
你不必害怕，我既然没有当场揭穿你，自然不打算在这件事情上责怪你和心儿。¤You don't need to be afraid. Since I didn't expose you on the spot, I naturally don't intend to blame you or Little Xin for this matter.
{xiaozi}，小心！！¤{xiaozi}, be careful!!
正午，一位鹤发老者蓦地出现在会场上空。¤At noon, an elderly man with white hair suddenly appeared in the air above the venue.
他的声音并不洪亮，但却能让每个人都听的一清二楚、心情舒畅。¤His voice wasn't loud, but it could make everyone hear clearly and feel relaxed.
比赛当天，你被安排坐在广场的一角，身边皆是一些炼气、筑基期的修士。¤On the day of the competition, you were arranged to sit in a corner of the square, surrounded by cultivators in the qi refining and foundation establishment stages.
不久，大比便拉开了序幕，一场场比试在你笼罩的神识内打响。¤Soon, the Grand Tournament began and one after another, battles took place within your Soul Sense.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，下次有事再喊你出来！¤{FirstName} brother, I will call you out again next time if I need help!
虽然并没有深入钻研，但你也能看出不少门道来。¤Although you haven't delved deeply into it, you can still see a lot of the tricks.
之后，抽签、检验、入场、交手。每个环节都在天机阁的安排下有序地进行着。¤Afterwards, there were the draw, inspection, entrance, and competition. Each step was carried out in an orderly manner under the arrangement of the Heavens Secrets Pavilion.
哈哈哈哈哈，既然前十名已决出，这天机榜自然也要易位了。¤Hahaha, now that the top ten have been decided, the Heavenly Machine Ranking naturally needs to be rearranged.
相互道别后，你们便各自踏上了新的旅程。¤After bidding farewell to each other, you both set foot on new journeys.
那便约好了，一百年以后……实在不行就两百年以后，等我们都结丹了，再来这里过过招，到时候说不定还能碰上~¤Alright, we have a deal then. One hundred years from now... or maybe even two hundred years from now, we'll come back here and spar once we've all formed our cores. Who knows, we might even run into each other then~
我宣布，本届天机大比正式开赛！¤I declare that the Tianji Competition of this edition is officially commencing!
你能感受到，无论什么境界的修士都在低声议论你的名号，纷纷投来了尊敬的目光。¤You can feel that cultivators of all realms are whispering your name, casting respectful glances towards you.
你一开始还略有些不好意思，但精彩的比试很快便让你将这些抛诸脑后。你没注意到的是，有不少炼气期的修士看到你们的行径，也纷纷效仿，大会顿时乱了起来，也热闹了起来。¤At first, you felt a little embarrassed, but the exciting match quickly made you forget about it. What you didn't notice was that many cultivators in the Qi Refining stage saw your actions and followed suit, causing chaos and adding to the lively atmosphere of the event.
嗯，回见。¤Uh, goodbye.
首先，大会将严格按照规则进行，禁止一切武器、法宝、防具的使用，并且禁止服用丹药，想必大家已经清楚了。¤Firstly, the competition will be strictly enforced according to the rules. The use of all weapons, artifacts, and defense gear is forbidden, as well as the consumption of any elixirs. I'm sure everyone is aware of these restrictions.
再见啦。¤Goodbye.
你与倪旭欣便早早的就落座其中。¤You and Ni Xuxin quickly took your seats among them.
说罢，倪旭欣便一人向临近的擂台跑去了，丝毫没有在意旁人的目光。¤After speaking, Ni Xuxin ran towards the nearby arena alone, without paying any attention to the onlookers.
我也得赶紧回去悄悄把令牌还回去了，要是让我爹发现了，又得挨通骂。¤I have to quickly return the token secretly, if my father finds out, I will definitely be scolded.
那…我自己去看吧，我们到时候见。¤Well...I'll go and see for myself. I'll see you later.
尽管每一场比试都有其独到之处，但若想深入钻研某一道，还是着重观战几位修士为好。你决定¤Although each competition has its unique aspects, if you want to delve deep into a particular one, it is still best to observe several cultivators in detail. You decide to do so.
几天下来，你对此道的思绪多了不少。¤After several days, your thoughts on this path have increased quite a bit.
随着最后一场比试结束，决出了最终的冠军，大会也在众人潮水般的喝彩声中，接近了尾声。¤As the final competition came to an end and the ultimate champion was decided, the conference also drew to a close amid the cheering of the crowd.
大会结束后，你便带着思绪，混在熙熙攘攘的人群中离开会场。¤After the conference ended, you left the venue amidst the bustling crowd with your thoughts in tow.
……嗯。¤...... Hmm.
在众目睽睽之下，他拉着你从一个擂台跑到另一个擂台，丝毫不在意旁人的目光。¤In front of everyone's eyes, he pulled you from one arena to another without caring about the onlookers.
此人……恐怕已是元婴巅峰修为，不愧是天机阁。¤This person... is probably at the pinnacle of nascent soul cultivation, truly deserving of being from Heaven's Secrets Pavilion.
嗯，若是真突破到了金丹期，来切磋一二也未尝不可。¤Well, if you truly break through to the golden core stage, we could have a duel to test your skills.
此外，观战捧场的道友们，也希望给老夫几分薄面，勿要在大会期间生出事端。¤In addition, fellow daoists who come to watch and support would also hope to give me some face and avoid causing any trouble during the conference.
随着最后一场比试结束，决出了最终的冠军，大会也在众人潮水般的喝彩声中，接近了尾声。你二人也回到了最初的位置。¤As the final match ended and the ultimate champion was decided, the conference also came to an end amidst the cheers of the crowd. You two also returned to your original positions.
你着重观察了几位善用¤You focused on observing several individuals who made good use of something.
大会结束，天机阁派遣供奉来与你们寒暄一番后，你便也带着思绪离开了。¤After the conference ended, the Guest Elder from the Heavens Secrets Pavilion came to chat with you, and then you left with your thoughts.
倪兄，此番甚是尽兴，不过若真想参加此等大赛，还得抓紧时间修炼才是。¤Brother Ni, you had such a great time this time. However, if you truly want to participate in such a grand competition, you must cultivate diligently and make the most of your time.
托倪兄的福，还算是小有收获。不知倪兄可有看到什么新鲜事？¤Thanks to Brother Tuoni's help, I've gained some benefits. I wonder if Brother Ni has seen anything fresh?
道的修士，专心致志地观察他的一招一式，一些平常难以注意到的最为细节的东西也被你捕捉到了许多。¤As a cultivator of the Dao, you focus your attention on observing every detail of his every move. You are able to capture even the most minute aspects that are often overlooked.
随着最后一行字刻完，新的天机榜便写好了，这十个名字将伴随风雨走过这新的一百年。¤As the final stroke of the brush was finished, the new Heavenly Machine List was complete. These ten names will accompany through the wind and rain for the next one hundred years.
那边好像有个使剑的！我们快去看看！¤Over there seems to be someone wielding a sword! Let's go take a look!
你则专门找个一位善用¤武学的人来陪伴你
只见他手一挥，天机榜上密密麻麻的字皆被抹掉，又以指为笔，在天机榜上凌空刻起一行行的字来，赫然便是那前十的名字。¤I saw him wave his hand, and all the words on the Heavenly Machine List were erased. Then, using his finger as a pen, he engraved row after row of words in mid-air on the Heavenly Machine List. And lo and behold, those were the names of the top ten.
比赛当天，你落座在广场上方漂浮的假山上，身旁也尽是一些元婴修士。其中几位虽与你有过一面之缘，但也仅限于此。¤On the day of the competition, you sat on the artificial mountain floating above the square, surrounded by fellow cultivators. Some of them you had briefly encountered before, but only in passing.
大赛上的比试，双方或见招拆招，变招与反应都是极快；或对峙而立，一旦出手便是要决出胜负；或攻守分明，极致的矛与盾之碰撞……其玄妙程度乃你生平仅见，思绪万千。¤In the competition, both sides either counter each other's moves with lightning-fast reflexes, or stand facing each other in a tense standoff until one strikes and determines the winner. The clash of the ultimate spear and shield in a clear offense and defense is a level of intricacy that is unparalleled, leaving one with limitless thoughts and emotions.
最后，祝愿所有参赛修士机榜题名，所有观战的道友皆有所顿悟。¤Finally, may all the participating cultivators attain a ranking on the leaderboard, and may all the fellow daoists watching gain some enlightenment.
道的修士，深入钻研他们的招式，连最微小的细节也不放过。¤Cultivators who delve deep into the study of the Dao, scrutinizing every technique and not overlooking even the tiniest detail.
倘若你还是元婴境界，这些比试倒还有些看头，但在如今的你眼里，就像孩童嬉闹一般稚嫩。¤If you are still in the nascent soul realm, these competitions may be somewhat interesting, but in your current state, they seem as immature as children playing.
其次，所有比赛都需点到为止。为了保证大会没有意外发生，每个赛场都有我阁一名元婴期供奉作为裁判，若有情况，他们将自行判断是否需要出手干预。¤Secondly, all matches must be stopped at a certain point. In order to ensure that there are no accidents during the conference, each arena has a guest elder in the Nascent Soul stage from our sect to act as a referee. If there is any situation, they will judge whether they need to intervene on their own.
还未等倪旭欣回应，一阵笑声便吸引了全场的注意。¤Before Ni Xuxin could respond, a burst of laughter caught the attention of the entire audience.
倪兄，我想仔细钻研一下自己的东西，就不与倪兄同行了。¤Brother Ni, I want to carefully study my own things, so I won't travel with you.
几天下来，你收获颇丰。¤After a few days, you've gained many rewards.
几天下来，你二人走马观花之下，倒也看出来了一些门道。¤After a few days, the two of you quickly skimmed through everything and managed to grasp some basic knowledge.
很快，比赛便开始了。你能看见各流派高手在擂台上各施手段，招式层出不穷。¤Soon, the competition began. You could see experts from all schools showcasing their skills on the arena, using various moves and techniques.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，此地只能看清最近两个擂台，不如我们四处逛逛，也好多长长见识！¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, we can only see the two arenas closest to us from here. Why don't we explore a bit and broaden our horizons?
比试开始了约莫一炷香的时间后，台上的修士打的正酣，但倪旭欣似乎有些坐不住了。¤After approximately one incense stick's worth of time, the cultivators on the stage were fighting intently. However, Ni Xuxin seemed a bit restless.
比赛当天，偌大的广场上里三层外三层围满了修士。不过由于天机阁给每位修士都安排好了位置，整体上倒也显得井然有序。¤On the day of the competition, the square was packed with cultivators three levels deep. However, thanks to the arrangements made by the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion for each cultivator's placement, the overall situation looked well-organized.
可若全宁州最大规模的比试尚且如此，还有什么值得你注目呢？¤If even the largest scale competition in all of Ningzhou is like this, what else is worth your attention?
今天能邀请这么多人来参加天机大比，实乃我阁之幸，范某便在此谢过各位了。¤Today, being able to invite so many people to participate in the Tianji Competition is truly a blessing for our sect. I, Fan, would like to express my gratitude to everyone here.
你刚要回应，铁剑中却传来了老爷爷的声音。¤Just as you were about to respond, you heard the voice of the old grandpa coming from the iron sword.
真威风呐…有朝一日，我也要在这榜上留下我倪旭欣的名字！¤So powerful...one day, I will also leave my mark on this list, Ni Xuxin's name!
各位，在下乃天机阁阁主范杰。¤Everyone, I am the Secrets Pavilion Master, Fan Jie.
莫要急着答应，跟着他看固然能开阔眼界，但若真想学点东西，还是得专注跟着一个人学才好。¤Don't be quick to promise, while following him can definitely broaden your horizons, if you really want to learn something, you still have to concentrate and follow one person to learn.
虽然他并未释放任何威压，但会场上的修士们还是不约而同地安静了下来。¤Although he did not release any might suppression, the cultivators in the venue still instinctively quieted down.
比赛当天，你落座在广场上方漂浮的假山上，身旁也尽是一些金丹修士。其中几位虽与你有过一面之缘，但也仅限于此。¤On the day of the competition, you sat on the artificial mountain floating above the square, surrounded by cultivators. Some of them you briefly met before, but nothing more than that.
只见四十八位来自各流派的高手从空中漂浮的小山上一齐飞出，分落在六座擂台上，完成了他们的第一次亮相。¤I saw forty-eight top experts from various schools floating in the air on a small mountain, flying out together and landing on six arenas, completing their first appearance.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，这几天你钻研的怎么样了？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, how have you been studying these past few days?
倪兄说的是，大会期间我们便一同观战吧。¤Brother Ni said that we can watch the conference together during the period.
大比当天，你位列上宾，坐在会场上方视野最佳的假山上。以你的神识可以轻易笼罩整个会场。¤On the day of the grand competition, you were seated as a distinguished guest atop the rocky mountain with the best view of the venue. With your soul sense, you could easily cover the entire arena.
众人喧嚣之时，你兀的消失在了原地。有不少人注意到了此事，但却不敢声张。没人知道你去了哪里。¤When everyone was noisy, you suddenly disappeared from the spot. Many people noticed this, but no one dared to speak up. Nobody knows where you went.
这天魔的神通虽是独到且棘手，奈何与之对战的是你，不但境界压如今的它一头，实力也不是一般化神修士能相比的。¤Although the heavenly demon's divine skill is unique and formidable, it is unfortunate that you are the one battling against it. Your realm not only surpasses it, but your strength also cannot be compared to an ordinary deity transformation cultivator.
气浪所至，天魔眼核心中的魔气被一扫而空，因充满玄堇色魔气而昏暗了不知多久的阵法空间中竟是明亮了起来。¤As the wave of energy swept through, the magic qi in the demon eye core was completely wiped out. The array space that had been dimly lit for who knows how long due to the abundance of dark purple magic qi suddenly brightened up.
{FirstName}{$NickName} 这是把天魔灭杀了？¤{FirstName}{$NickName} This is to kill the Heavenly Demon.？
看来是天魔被大能的阵法封印多年，已经无比虚弱。或者，此中可能有些隐情。¤It seems that the heavenly demon has been sealed by a powerful array for many years and is now extremely weak. Or perhaps there are some hidden secrets involved.
但这琉璃麒麟并未造成过于华丽的声势，只是身形暴涨之后，一口将那魔气团吞下，而后径直爆炸开来。¤However, this glaze Qilin did not create too much magnificent momentum. After its body swelled, it simply swallowed the magic qi group in one bite, and then exploded directly.
即便隔着些距离。¤Even if there is some distance between us.
这样么。¤Like this.
反倒是炎萧解决了那两名魔修，前来与你汇合。¤On the contrary, Yan Xiao took care of those two demonic cultivators and came to meet up with you.
看来有效...¤It seems to be effective...
似乎是的。¤It seems so.
一道气浪从爆炸处席卷而出，冲击得炎萧的衣袍猎猎作响，更是让你险些站立不稳。¤A wave of Qi rushed out from the explosion site, causing Yan Xiao's robe to flutter and almost knocking you off your feet.
炎萧维持赤色火焰的同时，左手升起一道苍、青两色的火焰。手指轻弹，后者便如同流星一般，带着一道绚丽的焰尾向赤色火焰急射而去。¤While maintaining the crimson flame, Yan Xiao raised a blaze of blue and green with his left hand. With a flick of his finger, it shot towards the red flame like a shooting star, leaving behind a dazzling trail of flames.
{FirstName}{$NickName}，这是将天魔解决了么？¤{FirstName}{$NickName}，Is this the solution to the heavenly demon?？
这是...失败了？¤Is this...a failure?
是的，但这天魔化作一团魔气后，我用尽手段都无法将之击散。¤Yes, but after this heavenly demon became enchanted, it turned into a mass of magic qi, and despite my every effort, I couldn't disperse it.
在你的攻击下，魔气虽是剧烈的翻腾，但依旧有重新聚集的趋势。见状你经过短暂蓄力后，又是几式神通接踵而至，这才让那魔气团有了消散的趋势。¤Under your attack, although the magic qi was violently churning, it still had a tendency to reassemble. Seeing this, you quickly gathered power and unleashed several strikes of divine skill, which finally dispersed the magic qi.
你居然...单枪匹马地解决了天魔么？当年可是连化神强者出手也未能将之奈何。¤You actually...single-handedly dealt with the heavenly demon? Back then, even deity transformation experts were unable to do anything to it.
嗯，但时隔太久，你我也难以揣测当年发生了什么。¤Well, it's been too long and we can't speculate on what happened back then.
幸不辱命。¤Fortunately I haven't embarrassed myself.
炎萧一脸惊讶地看着那团魔气，显然是对于你力战天魔甚至取胜非常惊讶。¤Yan Xiao looked at the magic qi with surprise, apparently astonished by your ability to fight and even defeat the Heavenly Demon.
即便这麒麟的目标不是你。¤Even if this Qilin's target is not you.
（也好，我先疗伤吧，嘶...这妖人下手真够狠的。）¤(Alright, I'll go heal first. *Hiss*...this demon is really ruthless.)
你点了点头，没有再说什么，示意炎萧准备离开天魔眼。¤You nodded and didn't say anything else, indicating for Yan Xiao to prepare to leave the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
你与天魔缠斗一会后，终于是难以招架它的各种奇异神通，被其击倒在地。体内更是被魔气占据，每次运转功法时皆是剧痛难忍，连意识都因之模糊起来。¤After struggling against the heavenly demon for a while, you finally succumbed to its various strange divine skills that were impossible to defend against, and were knocked down to the ground. The magic qi took over your body, causing excruciating pain every time you tried to use a technique and even making your consciousness hazy.
现下天魔已死，你也没有其他要事，便饶有兴趣地看起炎萧的战斗来。¤Now that Heavenly Demon is dead and you have no other urgent matters to attend to, you watch Yan Xiao's combat with great interest.
看来是天魔被大能的阵法据说多年，已经无比虚弱。或者，此中可能有些隐情。¤It seems that the heavenly demon has been weakened by a powerful array for many years. Perhaps there are some hidden details involved.
想象中的死亡并没有到来，肉体与神魂的痛楚也在提醒着你还活着。¤The imagined death has not yet arrived, the pain of the body and soul serves as a reminder that you are still alive.
炎萧之前能在天魔道的阵法中以一敌三，如今没了阵法，对上的敌人又是只有两人，其中一个更是被你重伤，解决他们自是不难。¤Before, Yan Xiao was able to fight against three enemies in the array of the Heavenly Demon Cult. Now, without the array and only facing two enemies, one of whom is already heavily injured by you, it is not difficult to deal with them.
举手投足之间，你已是将这天魔压制得毫无反抗之力。最后更是重新化作一团魔气，无助地漂浮在半空，却被接踵而至的攻击打散，就此消失在此方空间中，与其他的魔气融为一体。¤With every gesture, you have suppressed the heavenly demon without any resistance. In the end, it even transformed into a cluster of magic qi, helplessly floating in mid-air, only to be shattered by the following strike and disappearing into this spatial dimension, merging with other magic qi.
你试探着用神通攻击天魔化作的魔气团。但只是引起魔气一阵翻腾，却未出现实质性的变化。¤You attempt to use your divine skill to strike at the enchantment of the heavenly demon's magic qi. However, it only causes a surge in the magic qi, without any substantial change occurring.
但我听门中前辈所说，曾经封印天魔的大能正是因为无法消灭它，才用其阵法修为结合由天地所造的天魔眼，将之拘束于此。¤But according to the senior I heard from the door, the powerful person who once sealed the heavenly demon was unable to destroy it, so they used their cultivation and combined it with the heavenly devil's eye created by the heaven and earth, along with an array, to bind it here.
终于，在你的不断轰击下，这天魔化作的魔气团消散在此方天地，再未聚集。¤At last, under your constant bombardment, the enchantment of the Heavenly Demon turned into a magical qi cloud and dissipated into this world, never to gather again.
无法将之击散么，让我来试试。¤Can't it be dispersed? Let me give it a try.
当他后知后觉地发现你单枪匹马解决了天魔时，竟是愣在了原地。饶是以他的见识，依旧是半晌没回过神来。¤When he realized belatedly that you had singlehandedly dealt with the Heavenly Demon, he was stunned in place. Even with his knowledge, he remained in a daze for quite some time.
只听一声悲嚎后，这天魔终于是支撑不住，重新化作一团魔气漂浮于阵法空间中。¤After a single mournful cry, the Heavenly Demon finally couldn't hold on any longer and transformed back into a ball of Magic Qi, lingering in the Array formation's space.
没等你说完，炎萧身上咆哮着的怒焰再次升腾，那夹杂着青、白的赤焰似是要将魔气燃尽一般...¤Before you could finish speaking, a raging blaze of fury once again surged from Yan Xiao's body, the red flames tinged with shades of blue and white seemed as if they were going to burn out the magic qi...
这苍、青色火焰与赤色火焰融为一体后，缓慢地变化着，最后竟是转变为一只琉璃色麒麟。¤After these cyan and flame flames combined, they slowly began to change and eventually transformed into a glaze-colored qilin.
未待你旁观多久，其便是将魔修烧做飞灰，并收起法宝走至你身旁。¤Without waiting for you to watch for long, she burned the demonic cultivator into ashes with her artifact, and walked towards you while collecting her artifact.
这天魔方才从封印中脱离，又哪是你这等天之骄子的对手。¤This heavenly demon has just broken free from its seal, how could you, such an arrogant child of heaven, be its match?
炎萧{$ChenHu}，我...¤Yan Xiao${$ChenHu}, I...
有些，在你印象里并不存在，是新添的。¤Some of them, were not in your memory, they are newly added.
再次升腾！¤Rise Again!
你看魔气似乎还在冰块中收缩膨胀，像是呼吸一般，不由得出声询问。但炎萧不置可否，只是淡淡一笑。¤You see, the magic qi seems to be expanding and contracting in the ice block, like it's breathing, I couldn't help but ask. But Xianxiao didn't answer and just gave me a faint smile.
哈哈哈，若不是{FirstName}{$NickName}先将天魔消耗大半，即便我能解决天魔，恐怕也要在此苦战不知多久。¤Hahaha, if it wasn't for {FirstName}{$NickName} greatly weakening the heavenly demon, even if I could defeat it, I'm afraid I would have to endure a long battle here.
即便相差一个大境界，你无法想象炎萧这招该有的威力。¤Even if it's just a difference of one realm, you cannot imagine the power that Yan Xiao's move possesses.
也不过是随意的两道神通，本就重伤的魔修立时陨落。另一个魔修也是乱了阵脚，被炎萧趁势击杀。¤It was just two casual divine skills, the demonic cultivator who was already seriously injured immediately fell. The other demonic cultivator also panicked and was killed by Yan Xiao.
你略微思考后，深吸一口气，灵气崩腾于四肢百骸之中，完成蓄力之后，以你最强的神通轰击在魔气团之上。¤After thinking for a moment, you take a deep breath and your power surges through your entire body. Once you have gathered enough energy, you unleash your strongest divine skill and strike the mass of magic qi in front of you.
你见尝试有些成效，当然不会放过这天魔，于是不仅是神通，法宝也同时攻向天魔。¤You saw some results after trying, so of course you wouldn't let go of this Heavenly Demon. Therefore, not only did Divine Skills attack, but Artifacts also simultaneously attacked the Heavenly Demon.
直到你走过去拍了拍炎萧的肩膀，后者才呢喃着开口。¤Only when you walked up and patted Yan Xiao's shoulder did he whisper and speak.
你考量了下自己的状态，没有选择与炎萧一起上前围攻天魔，而是退后一段距离，在紧急处理伤势的同时，关注着战场，以防万一。¤You assessed your own condition and chose not to join forces with Yan Xiao to attack Heavenly Demon, but instead stepped back a distance, paying attention to the battlefield while urgently treating your injuries, just in case.
我也不知，据门中前辈所说，曾经封印天魔的大能正是因为无法消灭它，才用其阵法修为结合由天地所造的天魔眼，将之拘束于此。¤I don't know either. According to our senior in the sect, the powerful one who sealed the heavenly demon did so because they couldn't destroy it. They combined their cultivation in array formations with the heavenly devil's eye created by the heavens and earth to bind it here.
{FirstName}{$NickName}实力真是出乎意料，不但能击败天魔，还能将之灭杀，佩服。¤{FirstName}{$NickName}'s strength is truly surprising. Not only can he defeat heavenly demons, but he can also slaughter them. Admirable.
炎萧对战两个天魔道修士虽然没什么压力，但你还是决定出手解决魔修。¤Yan Xiao battled two Heavenly Demon Cult Disciples with ease, but you still decided to intervene and take care of the cultivators.
辛苦了，接下来就交给我吧。¤Thank you for your hard work. I'll take it from here.
炎萧也恰好解决了那两名魔修，正欲过来与你汇合。¤Yan Xiao just happened to have taken care of those two demonic cultivators and was about to come over to meet up with you.
你说完之后，俩人陷入短暂的沉默中。¤After you finished speaking, the two people fell into a short silence.
入眼的满是玄堇色，绝望，且冰冷的玄堇色...¤The sight before my eyes was full of mysterious purple, despair, and icy purple...
哈哈哈，若不是{FirstName}{$NickName}先将天魔拖住，凭我的实力也无法同时面对天魔和数个魔修。¤Hahaha, if it weren't for {FirstName}{$NickName} holding back the Heavenly Demon, I wouldn't have been able to face both the Heavenly Demon and several demonic cultivators at the same time with just my own abilities.
这天魔...竟有些如此难缠的威能！¤This heavenly demon... actually possesses such troublesome power!
这天魔可没传说中那么厉害，我随手便把它解决了。¤This heavenly demon is not as fierce as the legends say. I easily took care of it with a casual move.
但据门中前辈所说，曾经封印天魔的大能正是因为无法消灭它，才用其阵法修为结合由天地所造的天魔眼，将之拘束于此。而我不过元婴境修士，为何能灭杀这天魔呢。¤But according to the senior in the sect, the powerful being who once sealed the heavenly demon was unable to destroy it. Instead, they used their cultivation in formations and combined it with the heavenly devil's eye created by the heavens and earth to bind it here. As for me, I am only a nascent soul cultivator. How can I kill this heavenly demon?
有些，是上一场留下的，还未完全恢复，又哀鸣着出现了。¤Some of them are leftovers from the previous battle, still in the process of recovering, yet they appear with mournful cries.
炎萧{$ChenHu}过誉了。但有一事让我不解，据说这天魔连化神大能也未能消灭，为何我却能...¤Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} is overrated. But there is one thing that puzzles me. It is said that the Heavenly Demon couldn't even defeat the Deity Transformation experts, yet I was able to...
正当你不解时，那冰块“呲咔”的一声，裂了开来，其中的魔气也随裂缝溢出，却是逸散至四周，没有再次聚集的迹象。¤Just as you were puzzled, the ice block suddenly cracked with a crack sound, and the magic qi within it also overflowed through the cracks, but it scattered around without any sign of gathering again.
这天魔虽强，但你也从来不是普通的元婴修士。你在功法的加持下，各类神通不断而出，配合着法宝一次又一次冲击着天魔的防御。¤Although this heavenly demon is strong, you are not an ordinary nascent soul cultivator. With the support of your techniques, various divine skills continuously emerge, combining with your artifacts to repeatedly attack the heavenly demon's defense.
炎萧收起法宝走到你面前，你能感觉到他身上伤口虽多，精神却很振奋。¤Yan Xiao put away his artifact and walked up to you. Despite the numerous wounds on his body, you can sense that his spirit is uplifted.
炎萧身上的伤口又多了一些。¤There were more wounds on Yan Xiao's body.
炎萧将法宝收起后便是走至你身旁。¤After Yan Xiao put away his artifact, he walked over to you.
炎萧一脸惊讶地看着那团魔气，显然是对于你一个金丹修士能力战天魔甚至取胜非常惊讶。¤Yan Xiao looked at the magic qi in surprise. It was clear that he was amazed that a cultivator with a golden core could fight against a heavenly demon and even win.
看来没有让你失望，我成功了。¤It seems I didn't disappoint you, I succeeded.
这...这是！¤This...this is!
但有一事让我不解，据说这天魔连化神大能也未能消灭，为何我却能...¤However, there is one thing that puzzles me. It is said that the Heavenly Demon could not be defeated even by a Deity Transformation expert. So why was I able to do it...
一声怒号从前方传来，但你也只能勉强抬头看向天魔。¤A furious roar came from the front, but you could only lift your head to gaze at the Heavenly Demon.
在炎萧火焰的烧灼下，那团魔气竟在“呲呲”声的伴随下不断缩小。¤Under the burning flames of Yan Xiao, that mass of magic qi was gradually shrinking with the sound of sizzling.
相顾无言，你示意炎萧准备离开天魔眼。¤Silent communication. You signaled to Yan Xiao to prepare to leave the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
待爆炸的火光散去，却见到团被冻住的魔气坠落在地上。¤After the fiery light waiting to explode dissipated, the frozen magic qi fell to the ground.
炎萧话音刚落，身上气势已是暴涨，一股灼热的灵气随之升起。而后他手捏法诀，一道赤色火焰于魔气团下方升起。¤As soon as Yan Xiao spoke, his aura skyrocketed and a scorching spiritual energy rose from his body. Then, he formed a hand seal and a crimson flame ignited beneath the magic qi.
但这些都不足以让你对它产生畏惧！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤But these are not enough to make you fear it! {vpunch=10,0.5}
而炎萧也没有辜负的期望。在他那强大的实力下，即便是伤痕累累且历经连续战斗，依旧压制得那天魔喘不过气来，后者仅是稍一分心便已是陨落于此。¤And Yan Xiao did not disappoint the expectations placed upon him. With his immense strength, despite being covered in wounds and having fought continuously, he still managed to suppress the Heavenly Demon, leaving the latter gasping for air. Even a momentary lapse in concentration led to the latter's downfall.
天魔的轻易消散让你有些奇怪，但也没太上心，只是将目光投向炎萧与仅存魔修的战斗。¤You looked a little strange when the Heavenly Demon dissipated easily, but you didn't pay too much attention to it. You just focused on the combat between Yan Xiao and the remaining demonic cultivator.
嗯，就刚才的情况来看，要灭杀虚弱状态的天魔并不难，甚至强一些的元婴修士费上一番功夫也能做到。若不是传说有些偏差，应该是其中有些隐情了。¤Well, based on the situation just now, it wouldn't be difficult to eliminate the weakened heavenly demon, and even a nascent soul cultivator with some effort could do it. If the legend is not entirely inaccurate, there must be some hidden circumstances involved.
多亏炎萧{$Chenhu}援助及时。¤Thanks to the timely assistance of Yan Xiao {$Chenhu}, we were able to make it through.
可即便是你灵气近乎枯竭，也未能将这魔气团集散。¤Even if your spiritual energy is almost depleted, you cannot disperse this magic qi cluster.
人类，这里不是你该来的地方，速速离去，莫要扰了本座修行。¤Humans, this is not the place for you. Get out of the way quickly and do not disturb my cultivation.
哼，小小蝼蚁，不自量力。¤Hmph, a mere ant, overestimating your abilities.
原来是{FirstName}小友，不知来此何事？¤So it is Young Friend {FirstName}. I wonder what brings you here?
哼，好大的胆子。既然你自己送上门来，那就受死吧！¤Hmph, how audacious. Since you delivered yourself to my doorstep, then prepare to die!
哈哈哈，早就听说{FirstName}小友修为不俗，能与你全力一战想必也是痛快之事。¤Hahaha, I have heard for a long time that young friend {FirstName} has outstanding cultivation. Being able to fight with you at full strength must also be a joyful thing.
他随手丢出一枚玉简。你粗略扫过其中内容后，便察觉到了其中的端倪。¤He casually threw out a jade slip. After scanning the contents roughly, you perceived the clue in it.
孰轻孰重，道友自行掂量罢，我便在此恭候{$xiaoyou}的好消息了。¤As for who is more important, fellow daoist can weigh it for themselves. I'll be waiting here for news from {$xiaoyou}.
此乃逆天造化术，道友收好。¤This is the defying good fortune technique, fellow daoist, take it.
一年以内，此城便会有一人飞升，届时你带着需要重铸肉身的灵魂体来此城便是。¤Within a year, a person will ascend in this city. At that time, you can bring your soul body that needs to be re-cast into a physical body to this city.
在下不方便出手，所以希望前辈来帮忙除掉他。¤I am unable to take action, so I hope senior will help me eliminate him.
此人虽明面上与阴魂岛交好，但老夫猜测其暗中有所图谋。¤Although this person appears to be on good terms with Ghost Island, this old man suspects that he has ulterior motives in secret.
{$xiaoyou}若能收集齐五枚神阴石，或是为我们除掉非也，此物自然奉上¤{$xiaoyou}, if you can collect all five Shenyin Stones or help us eliminate Fei Ye, we will naturally reward you with this item.
此术乃老夫立岛之本。魂体使用此术，可重新铸造一副与生前无二的身躯。¤This technique is the foundation of my Li Island. Using the soul body, one can recreate a body that is completely different from their original form.
考虑自然没问题，只是如今神阴石越来越难找了，岛上许多魂体找了成百上千年，也没有找出一块来。¤Considering nature is not a problem, but nowadays the shenyin stone is becoming increasingly difficult to find. Many soul bodies on the island have been searching for hundreds or even thousands of years, but have not found a single piece.
{$xiaoyou}少安毋躁，虽说此法的确难以实现，不过老夫已有解决之道了。¤{$xiaoyou}, calm down. Although it is difficult to accomplish this method, I already have a solution.
{$xiaoyou}若想换得此术，可以尝试完成向之恒或无尘委托的任务，或是用五枚神阴石换取。¤{$xiaoyou}, if you want to learn this technique, you can try completing missions entrusted by Mukai Tsune or Dust, or exchange it for five Shenyin Stones.
不愧是前辈。¤Not bad for a senior.
既然秘术已经到手，此处大抵便没有留恋的必要了。¤Since the secret arts have already been obtained, there is probably no need to linger here any longer.
原来此术是要借助修士飞升才可施展，难怪你想让本座在这里渡劫。¤Originally, this technique requires the assistance of a cultivator's ascension to be performed. No wonder you wanted me to undergo my tribulation here.
{$xiaoyou}无需担心，届时只管来此城便是，其余事情我自会安排妥当。¤Don't worry, {$xiaoyou}. Just come to this city at that time and I will take care of the rest.
此乃逆天造化术，前辈收好。¤This is the Defying Good Fortune technique, Senior, please accept it.
你可知道那非也？¤Do you know that or not?
他恭敬地递上一枚玉简。你粗略扫过其中内容后，便察觉到了其中的端倪。¤He respectfully handed over a jade slip. After skimming through its contents, you detected the clues hidden within.
呵呵，这便是这阴魂岛最大的秘密了，还容老夫卖个关子。¤Hehe, this is the biggest secret of Ghost Island, but I'll leave you in suspense.
我等不方便出手，所以希望你来暗中除掉他。¤We cannot act openly, so we hope that you can secretly eliminate him.
只见他微微仰首，抚须而笑，俨然一副成竹在胸的样子。¤I only saw him slightly tilting his head back, stroking his beard while laughing, as if he had a firm grasp on everything.
另有准备？¤Are you prepared?
不错，不过就算前辈不答应在下，在下也另有准备。¤Not bad. However, even if Senior doesn't agree, I have other preparations.
嗯，本座考虑考虑。¤Well, this seat will consider it.
呵呵，{$xiaoyou}竟真能收集五块神阴石，不错。¤Hehe, '{$xiaoyou}' actually managed to collect five shenyin stones, impressive.
岛主莫非在说笑？重铸肉身需要飞升时所引出的上界仙气？这等苛刻的条件如何实现？¤Is the island master joking? To rebuild the body requires the immortal energy from ascending to the upper realm? How can such harsh conditions be fulfilled?
…的确如此，此事可尚有回旋余地？¤Indeed, is there still room for maneuver in this matter?
{$xiaoyou}何事？¤What's the matter, {$xiaoyou}?
若你能除掉此人，那么逆天造化术依旧双手奉上。¤If you can get rid of this person, then the defying good fortune technique will still be offered to you.
届时再说罢。¤Let's talk about it later.
…可否待我考虑一二？¤Can you give me some time to think about it?
{$xiaoyou}若有寻到，我愿用一些稀有的天才地宝向你换取。¤If you happen to find it, I'm willing to exchange it with some rare celestial treasures and genius treasures.
这…倒是的确有一事…¤This...indeed there is one matter...
倒是的确有一事…¤On the other hand, there is indeed one thing...
一年以内，此城便会有一人飞升，前辈若有兴趣，届时大可前来见证一番。¤Within one year, there will be someone ascending in this city. If senior is interested, feel free to come and witness it.
前辈可知道那非也？¤Senior, do you happen to know that?
他皱着眉头、眯起眼睛，俨然一副心事重重的样子。¤He furrowed his brows and squinted his eyes, looking as if he had a lot on his mind.
除开收集到五块神阴石可以交换外，在向之恒与无尘那完成任意一件指定的任务也可换取。¤Apart from exchanging them for collecting five Shenyin Stones, you can also exchange them by completing any one of the specified quests with Mukai Tsune and Dust.
呵呵，看来{$xiaoyou}已经完成了约定的任务。¤Hehe, it seems that {$xiaoyou} has completed the agreed quests.
听闻{$xiaoyou}对逆天造化术颇有兴趣，向之恒与无尘交代的事情却没有做成，可有此事？¤I have heard that {$xiaoyou} is quite interested in the Defying Good Fortune technique. However, did Xiang Zhiheng and Wu Chen's task regarding this matter fail? Is there any news about it?
…你怎知道有人会来此渡劫？¤How did you know someone would come here for tribulation?
这两件事本座都没兴趣，可有其他的事情需要本座处理？¤I'm not interested in those two things, but is there anything else I need to deal with?
在{$shijian}年后，此城便会有一人飞升，前辈若有兴趣，届时大可前来见证一番。¤In {$shijian} years, someone in this city will ascend. If you are interested, senior, feel free to come and witness it.
在{$shijian}年后，此城便会有一人飞升，届时你带着需要重铸肉身的灵魂体来此城便是。¤{$shijian} years later, a person will ascend in this city. At that time, you can bring your soul body, which needs to be reconstructed, to this city.
好身手，我们也算不打不相识了。¤With such impressive skills, I guess we can consider ourselves acquaintances now that we've become acquainted without having to come to blows.
好，我这便为你启动阵法。如果你被幻象击败，会自动传送出阵。¤Alright, I will activate the array for you now. If you are defeated by the illusion, you will be automatically transported out of the array.
{shidi}能够在炼气期就闯过幻雾阵，日后成就一定不可限量啊。¤{shidi} was able to break through the Mirage Mist Array during the Qi Refining stage. His future achievements are boundless.
幻雾阵是我派长老们联合布下的阵法，一旦入阵，就会进入幻境，受到长老们所设幻象的攻击。在幻阵之中坚持的越久，越能磨炼你的{color=#d0380a}心境{/color}，如果你的{color=#d0380a}悟性{/color}高，还有可能从幻象的攻击中领悟我派的至深法门。¤The Mirage Mist Array is a formation jointly arranged by the elders of our sect. Once you enter the array, you will be transported into an illusionary realm and attacked by illusory strikes set up by the elders. The longer you persist inside the array, the more your mental state will be tempered. If your comprehension is high, you may even gain enlightenment into the profound techniques of our sect from the attacks of the illusions.
{shixiong}，要去幻雾阵历练一番么？¤{shixiong}，Do you want to go to the Mirage Mist Array for some training?？
当然，想要通过与幻象的交手来领悟法门是很难的，这么多年来我还没有见到有哪位师兄成功过。¤Of course, it's very difficult to achieve enlightenment by battling illusions. In all these years, I haven't seen any senior brother succeed.
{shidi}，要去幻雾阵历练一番么？¤{shidi}, do you want to go to the Mirage Mist Array for some training?
云雾在你的眼前开始翻涌，你感到一阵天旋地转，恍惚中，你已经进入了幻境之中。¤The clouds and mist churn before your eyes, and you feel a sudden dizziness. In a trance, you have already entered the illusionary realm.
真希望有朝一日能够见识一番！¤I really hope to have the opportunity to witness it one day!
听说这无尽之海上有四大妖圣，个个修为通天，就连化神期的大能也奈何不了它们。¤I've heard that there are four great demon saints on the endless sea, all of whom have boundless cultivation. Even those at the void transformation stage are helpless against them.
最近这几届的猎魔试炼死伤尤为严重，我派亦有不少弟子送了性命...¤Recently, the casualties during the demon hunting trials have been particularly severe. Many disciples under our sect have also lost their lives...
人的精力终究是有限的，炼丹炼器，制符布阵之术都只是辅助，难成正道。¤Human energy is ultimately limited. Refining tools and alchemy, as well as the art of making talismans and formations, only serve as assistance and cannot lead one to the right path.
之前已经是救命之恩了，但延寿丹家师之前已经服用过两粒了，上一次就只生效了一粒。¤Previously, it was already a life-saving grace, but the master of the Greater Longevity Pill had already taken two pills before, and the previous one only had the effect of one pill.
哦？道友知晓本门？那倒是方便了，不用我在做介绍了。¤Oh? Fellow Daoist is familiar with our sect? That makes things easier, I won't need to introduce myself then.
嘿嘿，正好我这里还剩一枚。¤Hey hey, I happen to have one left here.
两万一枚。¤Twenty-one thousand.
这是本门秘药玄古丹，除了能延年益寿更能易经伐髓调整资质。¤This is a secret medicine of our sect, the Profound Ancient Pill. Besides being able to prolong longevity, it can also adjust one's aptitude and improve their meridians.
早就听闻倪家大少不仅剑术高超更是精于炼丹，不知您可否帮我问问。¤I've long heard that the Ni family's eldest son not only possesses remarkable swordplay, but is also skilled in alchemy. Would you be able to inquire on my behalf?
道友，是在求购延寿丹药么？¤Fellow Daoist, are you looking to purchase the Greater Longevity Pill?
这玄古丹乃是本门不传之秘，但道友孝心着实令人动容，我就作价两万灵石卖于道友。¤This Profound Ancient Pill is a secret that is not passed down within our sect, but Fellow Daoist's filial piety truly moves me. I will sell it to Fellow Daoist for 20,000 spirit stones.
道友，这延寿丹药本就是有价无市，上次也是巧合，大少爷炼制了一批延寿丹我便帮你留了两粒。¤Fellow Daoist, the Greater Longevity Pills are priceless. Last time was just a coincidence, when Young Master refined a batch of them, I held back two pills for you.
这就是玄古丹？阁下是玄古门的道友吧。¤Is this the Profound Ancient Pill? Fellow Daoist, you must be from the Profound Ancient Sect.
你现在又来求购青冥丹，你真的是为难在下了。¤You're here again to purchase the Expert Longevity Pill. You're really putting me in a tough spot.
说罢，拿出一个黑瓶在掌心倒出一粒丹药。¤After speaking, he took out a black bottle and poured out a pill from it into his palm.
嘿嘿，钱货两清，承蒙惠顾。¤Hey hey, everything is settled and paid for. Thank you for your patronage.
一进门你就看到一个人面露焦急的拉着灵药堂管事。¤As soon as you entered the door, you saw someone anxiously pulling the steward of the Spirit Herb Hall.
说罢，他掌中出现一样的黑色小瓶，另只手向你伸出。¤After speaking, a small black bottle appeared in his palm, and his other hand reached out to you.
原以为四魔剑皆流落各州，不曾想竟是那玄机散人封印了戮仙剑，不知其余的魔剑下落如何......¤I had originally thought that the four demon swords had all been scattered throughout the various states. I never expected that the mixed person xuanji had actually sealed away the immortal executing sword. I wonder where the rest of the demon swords have ended up...
{FirstName}道友，此番你可有寻得衍复真人的消息？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, have you found any news about Paragon Overflowing Action?
这是...衍复长老的笔录！原来他竟也迷失在了宁州古迹的煞气中么...真是天道可畏。¤This is the record of Elder Yan Fu! It turns out he also got lost in the murderous aura of the Ningzhou ancient ruins... Truly, the Will of Heaven is awe-inspiring.
{FirstName}长老，此番你可有寻得衍复真人的消息？¤Elder {FirstName}, have you found any news about the Paragon Overflowing Action?
不管如何，门派定不会亏待{FirstName}长老，这是你应得的报酬。¤Regardless, the sect will not mistreat Elder {FirstName}. This is the reward you deserve.
你远远地发现一只独自游荡的下等魔...¤You spot a lone inferior demon wandering in the distance...
虽然早就在宗门古籍中研读过天劫的记录，但没想到真正的雷劫竟恐怖如斯，就算是白帝也未能渡过。¤Although the records of Heavenly Tribulation have long been studied in the ancient books of the sect, I didn't expect the true Thunder Kalpa to be so terrifying that even the White Emperor couldn't survive it.
虽然早就在宗门古籍中研读过天劫的记录，但真正观摩前辈渡劫的英姿，还是令我收益匪浅呐。¤Although I have studied the records of tribulation in ancient texts of the sect long ago, witnessing the magnificent sight of seniors transcending tribulation has truly benefited me.
此番回去以后，也是时候开始闭关为渡劫做准备了...¤After returning this time, it's also time to start cultivating and preparing for tribulation...
这就是九霄雷狱中孕育出的九天劫火吧。¤This is the Nine Days of Tribulation that was conceived in the Thunder Prison of the Nine Heavens, right?
嗯，这四散开的灵气似是先天之气。¤Mm, this scattered spiritual energy seems to be innate energy.
水面上一团雷云凝而不散，一阵阵波动波动向周围四散，在这气息的影响下似乎平日里狂暴的灵气风暴都有些缓和。¤A thundercloud formed above the water surface, gathering without dispersing. Waves spread out in all directions, seemingly calming the typically violent spiritual energy storms under the influence of this aura.
还没等你反应，一阵波动眼前的火焰就消失不见了。¤Before you could react, the flames in front of your eyes disappeared in a burst of energy.
这雷云看着和周围似乎不大一样。¤This thundercloud seems to be different from its surroundings.
这应该是孕育自天地异象之中的先天之火。¤This should be the innate fire born from the strange phenomena of heaven and earth.
此时，那团雷云倏地散开楼漏出一团橙红色的火焰，你能感受到焰心中蕴含着一缕纯净的先天灵气，但一阵阵毁灭气息随着道道火环向外四散。¤At this moment, the thundercloud dispersed, revealing a ball of orange-red flame. You could feel the pure innate spiritual energy contained within the flame core, but waves of destructive aura spread outward with each fiery ring.
你能感到体内的异火与半空中的火焰以相同的频率跳动。¤You can feel your different fire inside your body and the flame in the air pulsating at the same frequency.
此番切磋真是令我受益匪浅。¤This duel has truly been of great benefit to me.
竟然已经有鲲族进入了，我还是快些行事吧。¤Unexpectedly, the Kun Clan has already entered. I should act quickly.
对方带着你，来到了洞府门口。\n¤The other party brought you to the entrance of a cave.
《重剑决》是修炼类功法，在战斗时也有【蓄势】攻击，厚积薄发的效果。¤The Heavy Sword Technique is a cultivation technique that can also be used in combat with a Gather Momentum strike, allowing one to unleash the full force of their training and preparation.
本派入门功法有《金芒诀》，《养刀术》和《重剑决》，你想学习哪一个？¤Our sect's introductory 《techniques》 are the 《glowing metal》 technique, the 《rising sword art》, and the 《heavy sword technique》. Which one would you like to learn?
哈哈，宗门内的资源可不能用灵石换取，只有对宗门做出贡献的弟子才有资格在藏经阁与神兵阁兑换功法及法器，而这元灵石正是弟子们贡献度的体现。¤Haha, resources within the sect cannot be exchanged for spirit stones. Only disciples who have made contributions to the sect are eligible to exchange techniques and magic tools at the hidden manual pavilion and divine warrior pavilion with yuan ling stones, which is a reflection of their contribution level.
《金芒诀》是战斗类的功法，修炼后能够提升五行连击时金系法门的威能。¤《Glowing Metal Technique》 is a combat technique that, when cultivated, can enhance the power of the Metal element in the Five Elements Combo Strike.
{shidi}初来乍到，作为师兄我便私下赠与你一些元灵石，你可小心切莫被长老知晓。¤As a senior brother, I will secretly give you some yuan ling stones since you're new here, {shidi}. Be careful not to let the elders know.
《养刀术》是中庸类的功法，能够在平日修炼时于体内积蓄力量，提升每场战斗造成的第一次伤害。¤The 《Rising Sword Art》 is a middle-of-the-road technique that allows practitioners to accumulate power within their bodies during regular cultivation. This power surge enhances the first attack in every combat.
呼...好险，这是什么东西？¤Whew...that was close, what is this thing?
倪家家主见多识广，又精于剑道，或许可以去倪府请教一番...¤The Ni family patriarch is knowledgeable and skilled in sword dao. Perhaps one can seek guidance at Ni's manor.
太好了，也许从这柄飞剑里就可以找到一些能够唤起你记忆的线索。¤Great, perhaps some clues that can trigger your memories can be found in this flying sword.
更奇怪的是，这柄飞剑让我隐约有一丝熟悉的感觉，似乎在哪里见过的样子...¤Even stranger, this flying sword gave me a faint sense of familiarity, as if I had seen it somewhere before...
这是剑灵，只有法宝级别以上的仙剑，经过千百年的滋养，才会被孕育出来。¤This is Sword Spirit, only immortal swords of Treasure Level or above, nourished for thousands of years, can give birth to it.
只是这剑灵似乎被什么魔气沾染上了，竟然会主动攻击他人。¤However, this sword spirit seems to have been contaminated by some magic qi, and is now actively striking others.
长老这是？¤Elder, what is this?
宵小之辈，已被我击毙了。¤The insignificant ones have already been killed by me.
远方驻守此地的执事赶来。¤The steward stationed in the distance rushed over to this place.
幸亏长老法力高强，我等竟毫无察觉。¤Luckily the Elder's magical power was so strong that we didn't notice anything.
嗯，你收拾一下吧。¤Well, you clean up a bit.
你将自己与魏无极的分析向白帝一一道来。¤You explain your analysis of Wei Wuji to White Emperor one by one.
而《逆天造化术》，据小{shidi}的描述应该是由师父决定是否使用，敬请安心。¤As for the 《Defying Good Fortune》 technique, according to Junior {shidi}'s description, it should be decided by the master whether to use it or not. Please rest assured.
血剑宫？师父和{shidi}的分析倒是不无道理...¤Blood Sword Palace? The analysis of my master and {shidi} does seem to make some sense…
也好，那此事便交给{shidi}了。雷劫到来前，我会再让阿欣通知你的。¤Alright, then I'll leave this matter to {shidi}. Before the Thunder Kalpa arrives, I'll have Axin notify you again.
这{$heishou}当年没能夺得魔剑，恐怕不会善罢甘休。此番师兄渡劫，可以算是他们最后的机会了。¤This {$heishou} was unable to obtain the demon sword back then, and is unlikely to give up easily. This time, the senior brother's tribulation can be considered their final opportunity.
这件事就交给我吧，我正想和那些化神前辈结识一番。¤I'll handle this task, I'm looking to make acquaintances with those senior deities who have undergone deity transformation.
这些请帖留有我的神识印记，我会让阿欣带上这些请帖替我走上一趟，邀请他们前来观礼。¤These invitations bear my soul sense imprint, and I will have Axin deliver them on my behalf to invite them to attend the ceremony.
另外，玄道宗的混元子，竹山宗的明山散人，星宫的星凝宫主，离火门的火麒麟以及金虹剑派的白鹿真人。¤In addition, there's the Primordial Child from the Xuan Dao Sect, the Ming Mountain Scatterer from the Bamboo Mountain Sect, the Star Palace's Xing Ning, the Heavenly Fire Qilin from the Fire Gate Sect, and the Paragon White Deer from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect.
师祖，{FirstName}{xiongdi}来了¤Master, {FirstName} {xiongdi} is here.
当年御剑门因我而湮坠，本就对你们这一众弟子怀愧在心。¤In the past, the Imperial Sword Sect fell because of me, and I have always felt guilty towards all of you disciples.
果然也是仙灵之气么...¤Is this really spirit energy from immortals...
等等，两种秘术都要在他人渡劫时才能使用，那也就是说...¤Wait, both secret arts can only be used when someone is undergoing tribulation. Which means...
如今弟子可是九州第一剑仙，区区雷劫我还不放在眼里！¤Nowadays, this disciple is the number one Sword Immortal of the Nine Provinces. The mere Thunder Kalpa is not something I'm concerned about!
但眼下当务之急是把握住替师父重塑肉身的机会，到时恐怕很难再同时防备魔门的袭击。¤But the immediate priority is to seize the opportunity to reshape the master's body, and it may be difficult to defend against the attack of the Demon Sect at the same time.
但白帝还是一转此前豪气干云的气势，言语都温和了许多。¤But the White Emperor still toned down his previous imposing aura and became much more gentle in his words.
当年我被血剑宫救下绝非巧合，他们来宁州的目的也一直都是为了寻找那几柄魔剑。¤When I was saved by the Blood Sword Palace back then, it was definitely no coincidence. Their purpose for coming to Ningzhou has always been to search for those demon swords.
无妨，我追查多年，也只是有了一些模糊的猜测。¤It doesn't matter, I have been investigating for many years, and I only have some vague guesses.
不过既然要在渡劫时帮师父重塑肉身，那有些事情就不得不考虑了。¤However, since I need to help master to reshape his physical body during tribulation, I have to consider some things.
{shidi}说的是，确实应当多多提防这{$heishou}¤{shidi} said that we should indeed be more cautious of this {$heishou}.
古神教？师父和{shidi}的分析倒是不无道理...¤Old God Sect? The analysis from my Master and {shidi} does seem reasonable...
若不是师父当年将我领进门，这身修为还不知从何谈起，如今能有机会报答师父，我当然不会放过。是吧，小{shidi}？¤If it wasn't for my master bringing me into the sect, I wouldn't know where to start with my cultivation. Now that I have the opportunity to repay my master, I won't let it slip away. Right, little {shidi}?
师兄的意思是...？¤What does senior brother mean?
我与魔门交手多年，曾自创了一套荡魔剑诀，在与魔修对阵时或有奇效。今日便先授与{shidi}。¤I have been fighting with the demon sect for many years and have created a set of demon dangling sword skills. It can be effective against demon cultivators in a duel. Today, I will impart it to {shidi}.
还没有...¤Not yet...
等等，这秘术需要在他人渡劫时才能使用，那也就是说...¤Wait, this secret art can only be used when others are experiencing tribulation, which means...
{FirstName}{shidi}，极阴三海一行可有收获？¤{FirstName} {shidi}, did you have any gains on the trip to the Three Seas of Extreme Yin?
若是魔门来犯，他们也不会坐视不理。¤If the Demon Sect comes to attack, they will not sit idly by.
以{shidi}你如今在宁州的名声，若由你出面邀请或许会适得其反。¤With your current reputation in Ningzhou, if you were to invite them personally, {shidi}, it may actually backfire.
放心..我怎放得下心！¤Don't worry...how could I put my heart at ease!
无妨，这极阴三海的传说本就是虚无缥缈之事。索性这些年我也算有所收获，寻得了这本名为《造化逆天术》的秘术。¤No matter, the legend of the Extreme Yin Three Seas is already a vague and intangible thing. Over the years, I have gained some achievements and found a secret art called 《Heaven-Defying Art of Creation》.
如今想来，这般手段倒是与当年之事有几分相似...¤Now thinking back, these methods are somewhat similar to what happened years ago...
时隔多年，为师能再见轩儿一面便已是高兴至极，若是为了复活我，又葬送了你的苦修，我...我...¤After many years, to be able to see Xuan'er again makes me extremely happy. If reviving me will sacrifice your hard cultivation, then I...
当年我故意放出戮仙剑在白帝楼手中的消息，骗过了血剑宫与天魔道，却唯独被这古神教用魔神蛊渗透倪家长老的方式识破了。¤Years ago, I intentionally leaked information about the Immortal Executing Sword being in the hands of the White Emperor Pavilion. I deceived the Blood Sword Palace and the Heavenly Demon Cult, but only the Ancient God Sect saw through it by infiltrating the Ni Family Elder with the Devil God Gu.
以上五人或是与我私交甚密，或是与魔门留有旧怨，我有十足把握他们不会拒绝。¤The five aforementioned individuals are either close acquaintances of mine or have old grudges with the Demon Sect, I am fully confident that they will not refuse.
不过我这秘术其他方面又有些不同。¤But my secret arts have some differences in other aspects.
也是？难道师兄在另一处获得秘法也需要仙灵之气？¤Is that so? Does Senior Brother also need Immortal Spirit Qi to gain secret techniques from another place?
此事还是让阿欣走一遭吧。待时机成熟之后，我会让阿欣通知你的。¤Let Axin go and check it out. Once the timing is right, I will have Axin notify you.
原本我想借此番渡劫引魔出动，与那玄道宗的混元子长老一起将来犯的魔门一网打尽。¤Originally, I intended to use this tribulation to bring out the demons and take care of the invading demonic sect with the primordial child elder of the Xuan Dao Sect.
听{shidi}的描述，这《逆天造化术》需要被复活者自主看准机会驱动。而我所获得的《造化逆天术》将主动权放在渡劫者手里，需由渡劫者驱动秘术，从而利用仙灵之气为被复活者重铸肉身。¤According to {shidi}'s description, the 《defying good fortune》 requires the revived to identify opportunities and drive it themselves. However, the 《opposing heaven technique》 that I have gained puts the control in the hands of the tribulation-crosser. The secret arts must be driven by them, utilizing the immortal spirit energy to reforge the revived's physical body.
不错，这《造化逆天术》的原理乃是利用他人飞升渡劫时引动的仙灵之气重铸肉身。¤Not bad, the principle of the 《Reverse Heaven Technique》 is to use the immortal energy drawn from others during their tribulation to recast one's own fleshly body.
天魔道？这倒是我未曾想到的...¤Heavenly demon cult disciple? This is something I never thought of...
嗯，我本就准备在不久之后渡飞升之劫，所以师父不需担心，不会让你等太久的。¤Well, I was already prepared to cross the tribulation of ascension soon, so Master doesn't need to worry. It won't make you wait too long.
我顺利得到一种名为《逆天造化术》的秘术，据言可以为灵魂体塑造一具与生前一般无二的肉体。¤I have successfully obtained a secret art called 《Defying Good Fortune》, which is said to be able to shape a body for the soul that is exactly the same as the one in its living state.
如若真是事不可为，弟子将主动停下《造化逆天术》的运转，专心应对雷劫。¤If it's truly impossible, the disciple will proactively halt the activation of the 《Reverse Heavenly Technique》 and focus on dealing with the Thunder Kalpa.
师傅，放心吧。¤Master, don't worry.
魏无极说到此处竟是哽咽起来，只是那灵魂之体未能随着他的心情变化相应地凝结出泪光，倒让这份情绪显得不那么真切。¤Wei Wujie choked up as he spoke, but his soul form was unable to produce tears that corresponded with his emotional state, making the sentiment seem less genuine.
{vpunch=10,0.5}胡闹！¤Nonsense! {vpunch=10,0.5}
我对抗魔门多年，与天魔道血剑宫都结下深仇。再加上此前早已放出戮仙剑在我手中的传闻，这些魔门必然不会放过我渡劫飞升时这个最后的机会。¤I have been fighting against the demonic sect for many years, and have deep enmity with the Blood Sword Palace of the Heavenly Demon Cult. In addition, there have already been rumors about the Immortal Executing Sword in my hands, so the demonic sect will definitely not let go of this last opportunity during my transition to ascension.
唉，你这孩子，还是一点没变。嘴上是这么说的，但你心里在想什么难道我还不知道么。¤Ah, you child, you haven't changed a bit. You say one thing but what you're thinking in your heart, do I still not know?
哈哈哈哈，{shidi}嘴上这么说，但出海寻找秘术可是未见迟疑。¤Hahaha, {shidi} may say that on the surface, but when it comes to searching for secret arts at sea, there's no hesitation.
造化逆天术？¤Reverse the Heavens technique?
嗯，我获得的秘法与{shidi}寻来的虽有些不同，但究其根本却是一致的。眼下除非还能寻到其他秘术，不然仙灵之气恐怕是不可或缺了。¤Well, the secret arts I've gained may be slightly different from the ones {shidi} found, but fundamentally they are the same. At present, unless we can find other secret arts, it's probably indispensable to have Immortal Spirit Qi.
此前为了调查当年御剑门之事，我也一直在留意这些魔门的动向。¤I have been paying attention to the movements of these demonic sects in order to investigate the incident related to the Imperial Sword Sect from earlier.
可惜时隔太久，还是没能弄清当年的真相...¤Unfortunately, after such a long time, I still haven't been able to figure out the truth of what happened back then...
哈哈哈哈，看来我与{shidi}所见略同啊。¤Hahaha, it seems my views align with my junior fellow {shidi}.
你们俩有这心就够了，但为我这老不死的冒险，真不值得。¤You two having this intention is enough, but for me, an old guy who won’t die, it’s really not worth it to take risks.
只是使用条件有些苛刻，需在他人渡雷劫之时于一旁引动仙灵之气重铸身体。¤However, the conditions for using it are quite harsh. One must use the aura of immortal spirit to reshape their body at the side of others who are undergoing the Thunder Kalpa.
魏无极叹了口气，嘟囔了一句什么便回到剑中去了。¤Wei Wuji sighed and muttered something before returning to his sword.
此前为了调查当年御剑门之事，我也一直在留意这些魔门的动向，如今倒是有了一些新的理解。¤In order to investigate the incident of the Imperial Sword Sect in the past, I have been keeping an eye on the movements of these demonic sects. Now, I have gained some new insights.
{vpunch=10,0.5}飞升渡劫本就万分困难，稍有不慎便会让你千百年的苦修白费！岂能将之当做儿戏！¤{vpunch=10,0.5}Ascending and crossing the tribulation is already extremely difficult, even a slight mistake will make your thousands of years of hard cultivation in vain! How can it be treated as a trivial matter!
不过这些年天魔道确实一直蠢蠢欲动，与宁州的不少势力都有所勾结。当年或许也是他们用这种手段挑拨了五派与御剑门的关系吧。¤However, these years the heavenly demon cult disciples have indeed been active and have colluded with many forces in Ningzhou. Perhaps it was also their means of provoking the relationship between the five factions and the imperial sword sect back then.
那{shidi}先做好准备吧，待时机成熟，我会让阿欣通知你的。¤That {shidi}, be prepared. When the time is right, I will have Axin inform you.
我们骨材铺专售各类妖兽牙，骨，外壳类材料。道友看看有什么需要的？¤Our Bone Shop specializes in selling various materials from spirit beast teeth, bones, and shells. Fellow daoist, see if there is anything you need?
我看方才那异象八成是三阳玄火造成的，若无万全准备你千万不可冒险。¤I think the strange phenomenon just now was probably caused by the Mysterious Fire of Three Yangs. If you are not fully prepared, you must not take risks.
既是至阳至盛之物，自然可用极阴极寒之物中和。¤As it is an extremely Yang and robust object, it can naturally be balanced by extremely Yin and cold objects.
他那功法取自三阳玄火，所谓三阳玄火乃是上古异火其一，在这九州大陆上极其难觅。当年他也不知得了什么机缘，竟在沃焦山熔岩深处发现一丝异火踪迹。¤His technique was derived from the Mysterious Fire of the Three Suns. The Three Suns Mysterious Fire is one of the ancient mysterious fires and is extremely difficult to find in the Nine Provinces Continent. He didn't know what kind of opportunity he had back then, but he actually discovered a trace of the Different Fire in the depths of the lava in the Inferno Mountain.
竟如此危险...你可知如何才能令我接触那异火吗？¤It's so dangerous... do you know how I can come into contact with that different fire?
据那老小子形容，三阳玄火霸道无比，若非他有元婴修为还真奈何不得那异火几分。饶是如此，和三阳玄火斗争也去了他大半条命，连元神都被它吞了十之有一。¤According to the old man's description, the Three Yang Mysterious Fire is extremely powerful. If he did not have a Nascent Soul cultivation, he would not be able to handle even a fraction of the Different Fire. Despite this, fighting against the Three Yang Mysterious Fire had taken away half of his life, and even his Yuan God was swallowed up by it by ten percent.
做好准备后，再来挑战这三阳玄火应该就对你无恙了。¤After preparing yourself, you should be able to withstand the challenge of the Three Yang Mysterious Fire without harm.
传闻无尽之海上有一种极阴冷火，若是修习过也许能有几分作用，其次也可服用极寒的雪玉骨参。除此之外，你的修为也不可低于金丹期，否则大罗金仙也救不了你。¤Rumours have it that there is an Extreme Yin Cold Fire in the Endless Sea, which may have some effect if cultivated. Alternatively, one could consume the Frostbone Ginseng which has an extreme cold attribute. However, in addition to these, your cultivation level must also be no lower than the Golden Core stage, otherwise even a Great Luo Golden Immortal won't be able to save you.
形势不妙啊。¤The situation is not good.
看情形，应该是某种禁制，看来这古神教一开始就没准备给他一条活路啊，既然来此，那就进去看看吧，就我感知里面已经没有活人了。¤From the looks of it, there may be some kind of restriction. It seems that the Ancient God Sect didn't intend to give him a way out from the beginning. Since he's here, let's go inside and take a look. From my perception, there are no living people inside anymore.
就是我出来的地方，我体内被下了禁制，什么都不能乱动，他们留给我的丹药就要吃完了，还好你救了我。¤This is where I came out. There's a restriction placed inside me, so I can't move recklessly. They left me with only a few pills, which I'm about to finish. Thankfully, you saved me.
还有？....对了，期间还有一个长老来过，他被那个护法叫做天邪子，也带了一队人马，好像在追杀一个叛徒，不过很快就走了。¤Anything else?... Oh, right. During that time, an elder came by who was called the Heavenly Devil by the protector. He brought along a group of people and seemed to be chasing after a traitor, but they left quickly.
我都说了，放过我吧我也是迫....额...额.噗！！！！¤I've already said it, please let me go. I was also forced... Uh... Uh. Puh!!!!
眼前之人，七窍流血，已经气绝。¤Before my eyes, the person's seven orifices were bleeding and they had already passed out.
对，对，那个领头的，别人都叫他护法，不过他包的的严实，也不知是男是女。¤Right, right. That leader, others call him the protector, but his attire is tightly wrapped, and it's unknown if they're male or female.
说，但有隐瞒，送你上路！¤Speak, but conceal something, and send you on your way!
老头，你知道这是怎么了吗?¤Old man, do you know what's going on?
别~别杀我！！¤Don't... Don't kill me!!
我本是化尘教一普通的外门弟子自此巡逻，被他们制服之后种下了魔神蛊。他们威胁我，我迫不得已才为他们打掩护，他们就在此做了藏身地。后来他们好像有什么要事，就把我关在里面了。¤I was originally an ordinary outer disciple of the Shifting Sand Sect and was patrolling here. After being subdued by them, they planted the Devil God Gu on me. They threatened me, and I was forced to provide cover for them. They then used this place as their hiding spot. Later, it seemed that they had some important business to attend to and locked me in here.
无尽之海上也如同宁州一般，有着自己的势力划分。其中最大的城池竟由三大势力共同掌管，真是前所未闻。¤On the Endless Sea, it is just like Ningzhou in that it has its own power divisions. Surprisingly, the largest city is jointly governed by three major powers, which is unheard of.
这小妖也不过如此嘛，回去复命吧。¤This little monster is nothing to worry about, go back and report to the higher-ups.
不自量力之辈，回去复命吧。¤You overestimate your abilities. Go back and report.
这妖兽好厉害，先回去复命吧。¤This spirit beast is so powerful, let's go back and report to our superiors.
对方打晕了你，速速离去。¤The opponent has knocked you out, quickly get out of the way.
此人甚是厉害，先回去复命吧。¤This person is extremely powerful, let's go back and report it.
道友，走的这么急，应该是找到好东西了吧。¤Fellow Daoist, you're in such a hurry, did you find something good?
想要我手里的东西，那得看看你有没有这个本事！¤I want the things in my hands. It depends on whether you have the skills!
你收敛气息，快速找了一个隐秘之处躲藏起来。不多时，便有一道遁光从洞口闪过。¤You restrained your breath and quickly found a secluded place to hide. Before long, a light beam flashed from the cave entrance.
紧急关头，你来不及多想，一个瞬身便闪入洞窟。将那两株{SayStcVal=948}收入囊中！¤In a critical moment, without much thought, you quickly entered the cave in a flash. Take those two {SayStcVal=948} plants and put them in your bag!
道友，在下此番出海正是为了寻这{SayStcVal=948}。我无意与道友冲突，但若道友愿意出让的话，我愿意花灵石买下这两株草药，不知道友意下如何？¤Fellow daoist, I set sail this time to search for these {SayStcVal=948}. I have no intention of conflicting with you, but if you are willing to part with them, I am willing to use spirit stones to buy these two herbs. What is your willingness?
所谓见者有份，我也不是什么贪心之人。这两株{SayStcVal=948}你若能分我一株，我便放你从这里离开。否则要是动起手来，再惊动了更多的人，道友怕是连剩下的这一株也得不到了。¤As a fellow daoist, I am not a greedy person when it comes to the so-called sharing benefits among cultivators. If you can give me one of these two {SayStcVal=948}, I will allow you to leave this place. But if you choose to use violence and attract more attention, you might not even get the remaining one.
他脸上的表情阴晴变换，似乎是在衡量你的实力。一番纠结后，他很不情愿地将一株草药抛给了你，然后飞快地离开了。¤His expression changed constantly, as if he was weighing your strength. After some hesitation, he reluctantly threw a herb at you, then quickly left.
你收敛气息，慢慢走进洞窟..你刚才摘下草药，突然汗毛倒立，回头一看，一个人影竟不知何时出现在了你的身后。¤You restrained your breath and slowly walked into the cave. Just as you had picked some herbs, your hairs stood on end. You turned around and saw a person's shadow had appeared behind you, without knowing when.
此人的衣着与遁术看起来都颇为眼熟，也许和你一样是来自宁州的修士。你决定...？¤The attire and mobility of this person seem quite familiar, perhaps they are also a cultivator from Ningzhou like you. You decide...?
我无意与道友冲突，若道友愿意出让的话，我愿意以5万灵石的价格买下这两株草药，不知道友意下如何？¤I have no intention of conflicting with my fellow daoist. If my fellow daoist is willing to sell, I am willing to buy these two herbs for 50,000 spirit stones. What do you think of my offer?
哼，想要我手里的东西，那得看看你有没有这个本事！¤Hmph, if you want what's in my hand, it depends whether you have the ability!
嘿，能屈能伸，倒也是个人物，本座记住你了。¤Hey, you can adapt to circumstances and have some backbone, you're quite a character. This deity will remember you.
此人衣着与身法中处处透露着诡异，与常人大为不同，更像是魔道法门。这些魔门修士实力难以预测，通常还会有一些与人玉石俱焚的危险招收，实在不好对付。你决定...？¤This person's attire and movements exude a sense of eeriness, vastly different from ordinary individuals and resembling those of demonic sects. The strength of these demonic sect cultivators is difficult to predict, and they are often willing to take on dangerous techniques. They are not easy to deal with. What do you decide to do?
此等品阶的草药实乃可遇而不可求之物，可惜神识笼罩范围内，另有一人的气息也正在朝此处靠近。你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤This kind of herb is something that can be encountered but not sought after, unfortunately, within the range of the soul sense, there is another person's aura approaching this place. What do you decide to do?{w}{w=0.5}
若是寻常宝贝便算了，像{SayStcVal=948}这样可遇不可求的草药，在下可不能眼睁睁地看着道友独吞了他。¤If it were just ordinary treasures, it would be fine, but regarding herbs like {SayStcVal=948}, which are hard to come by, I cannot simply watch as a fellow daoist swallows them all alone.
哈哈哈，那便多谢道友了。¤Hahaha, thank you fellow daoist.
本座今日心情不错，把东西留下，我便饶你一条性命。¤I'm in a good mood today. Leave your belongings behind and I'll spare your life.
那人距离此地尚有一段距离，若你抢先一步动手，应该有办法在他之前夺得此宝。¤That person is still some distance away from here. If you act fast enough, there should be a way to seize this treasure before he does.
...你是何人？¤What kind of person are you?
很好，现在它们归你了。¤Very well, they are yours now.
你身法轻灵，仅仅一息之间便带着草药扬长而去，顺利的避开了这场冲突。¤Your movements are light and agile, in just a breath's time you carried the herbs and smoothly evaded the conflict.
这两株草药对我来说也很重要，即便送去拍卖行也是价格不菲。¤These two herbs are also very important to me, and even if I send them to the auction house, the price will be high.
道友，在下是来自{$MP}的修士，此番出海正是为了寻这{SayStcVal=948}。¤Fellow cultivator, I am a cultivator from {$MP}. This journey to the sea is precisely for the purpose of finding this {SayStcVal=948}.
滚吧，趁本座还没有改主意之前，赶紧从我面前消失。¤Get lost before I change my mind.
口气倒是不小，那就看看你到底有几分本事吧。¤The tone is not small, let's see how much ability you really have.
哈哈哈哈，果然是这{SayStcVal=948}。¤Hahaha, as expected, it is this {SayStcVal=948}.
从他的身法与衣着中，不难看出此人是来自碎星商会的修士。碎星商会在无尽之海中颇有势力，你决定...？¤From his movements and attire, it's easy to tell that this person is a cultivator from the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. The guild holds considerable influence in the Endless Sea. What's your decision...?
不过你若是愿意出上7万灵石的价格，倒也不是不能考虑。¤However, if you're willing to pay a price of 70,000 spirit stones, it's not impossible to consider.
你刚走出洞窟，正准备扬长而去，只见一道遁光闪到你的身前...¤As you just walked out of the cave, preparing to leave, a ray of escaping light flashed in front of you...
从他的身法与衣着中，不难看出此人是来自蓬莎岛的修士。蓬莎岛在无尽之海中颇有势力，你决定...？¤From his movements and attire, it is not difficult to see that this person is a cultivator from Pongsha Island. Pongsha Island holds considerable power in the Endless Sea, and you decide...?
一定是我的丹药还不够完美，青嫣才会拒绝我......¤It must be that my pill is not perfect enough, Qing Yan refused me...
与其碌碌度日，徐兄不妨想想青嫣走前对你说的话。¤Instead of living a dull life, Brother Xu might as well think about what Qing Yan said to you before she left.
这辈子还没过完就开始指望下辈子，你真是病入膏肓。¤In this lifetime, you're already relying on the next lifetime. You're really sick to the core.
你不愿再与他多费口舌，收起法宝便向山洞外走去。¤You didn't want to waste any more words with him, so you put away your artifact and walked out of the cave.
你本以为他终于想开打算重振旗鼓努力修炼，没想到他在原地摆出丹炉开始了新一轮的炼丹。¤You thought he finally came to his senses and planned to revive his efforts in cultivation, but instead he stayed in the same place and set up his alchemy furnace for a new round of alchemy.
徐凡把剑一扔，直接一屁股坐在了地上。¤Xu Fan threw his sword aside and plopped himself down on the ground.
你叹了口气，看来是没办法将此人从自己的世界中拉出来了。¤You sighed, it seemed that there was no way to pull this person out of your world.
反正我是废物，修炼是，炼丹也是。倒不如趁早一了百了，下辈子再圆此长生梦。¤Anyway, I'm a useless person. Cultivation and alchemy are both beyond me. It's better to just end it all now and start over in the next life to fulfill my dream of eternal life.
我当是什么少年豪杰......水平也不过如此。¤I am just an ordinary young hero... my level is nothing special.
就这两下子还敢质疑我与青嫣的感情，也不问问自己配不配？¤Do you dare to doubt my relationship with Qing Yan with just these few words? Have you even considered if you are worthy of it?
徐凡打赢了你，看起来心情似乎好了许多。¤Xu Fan successfully defeated you, and it seems like his mood has improved a lot.
道友你好，天星城中出现了些变故，现已封城。林家与星宫的联姻也被推迟。若无要事，还请前往天星城客栈休息几天，待解封之后再自行离去。¤Greetings fellow daoist, there have been some incidents in Starsky City and it is currently under lockdown. The marriage alliance between the Lin Family and Star Palace has also been postponed. If there is no urgent matter, please rest in Tianxing City Inn for a few days until the lockdown is lifted before leaving on your own.
{FirstName}道友原来你在这里。¤{FirstName}Fellow Daoist, I didn't expect to find you here.。
林姑娘可知大概需封城多久？如无必要，我还是不想在天星城内耽搁太久。¤Miss Lin, do you have an idea of how long the city will need to be sealed off? If possible, I don't want to delay too long in Starsky City unless it's necessary.
即是如此，那我便先行前往客栈了。¤Alright then, I'll head to the inn first.
多谢道友告知。既然如此，我便先行前往客栈了。¤Thank you for the information, fellow daoist. In that case, I will head to the inn first.
林姑娘可是找我有事？¤Is Miss Lin looking for me? What's up?
嗯...天星城中出现了些变故，现已封城，{daoyou}若无要事急需离去，还请在客栈中休息几天。当然，在此期间客栈所有费用将由林家负责。¤Hmm... There have been some changes in Starsky City, and the city is now closed. If you, {daoyou}, have no urgent matters and need to leave, please rest at the inn for a few days. Of course, during this time, all expenses at the inn will be covered by the Lin family.
作为补偿，封城期间客栈的所有费用都将由林家支付。¤As compensation, all inn expenses during the city lockdown period will be covered by the Lin family.
嗯...应该只需一两天便是会解封，不会耽搁{FirstName}道友太久。¤Mmm... It should only take one or two days to have the ban lifted. It won't delay fellow daoist {FirstName} for too long.
对方剑光直刺你的面门。¤The opponent's sword light pierces straight towards your face.
完了...¤It's finished...
这是？还是拿回白帝楼吧。¤What is this? Maybe we should take it back to the White Emperor Pavilion.
死！！¤Die!!
呼~这人若不是受了伤，还真是不好对付。¤Phew~ This person wouldn't be so difficult to deal with if they weren't injured.
小友勇气可嘉，但这祭血使不是你能处理的，以后还要小心行事。¤Your courage is commendable, young friend. However, the blood sacrificial ritual is not something you can handle. Be careful in the future.
{SayStcVal=927}，有什么事么？{w}{w=0.5}¤{SayStcVal=927}, is there something you need? {w}{w=0.5}
你能感知到，对方是{SayStcVal=921}修士。你决定...{w}{w=0.5}¤You can sense that the other person is a cultivator with a {SayStcVal=921} level of cultivation. You decide...{w}{w=0.5}
对方{SayStcVal=920}地站在原地，似乎先等你离开。¤The other side stood in place {SayStcVal=920}, seemingly waiting for you to leave first.
此次论道双方互有收获。¤In this debate, both sides have gained something.
{shixiong}，请。¤Senior brother, please.
{FirstName}{LastName}，有什么事？¤{FirstName}{LastName}, is there something you need?
对方{SayStcVal=920}的看着你，并不想和你交易，你准备离开。¤The other party {SayStcVal=920} looked at you and had no intention of trading with you, so you prepared to leave.
对方站在原地，在等你先行离开。¤The other party stood still, waiting for you to leave first.
前辈，有何吩咐？¤Senior, what are your orders?
前辈，你好。¤Senior, hello.
前辈，不如我们交易一番。¤Senior, how about we make a trade?
道友，再见。¤Fellow daoist, goodbye.
想走？晚了！！¤Want to leave? It's too late!!
在下想和阁下切磋一二。¤I would like to have a duel with you, senior.
小友，走好。¤Young friend, farewell.
前辈走好。¤Goodbye, senior.
{SayStcVal=927}，有事？{w}{w=0.5}¤{SayStcVal=927}，There is something.？{w}{w=0.5}
对方似乎是{SayStcVal=920}修士，见到你过来，停下来{SayStcVal=923}地看着你。你决定...{w}{w=0.5}¤The other person seems to be a cultivator, who stopped and looked at you as you approached. You decide...
对方面无表情地转身离开。¤The other party turned around and left expressionlessly.
{shixiong}，慢走。¤{shixiong}, take care.
{SayStcVal=927}，可有吩咐？{w}{w=0.5}¤{SayStcVal=927}, any orders?{w}{w=0.5}
对方向你点头示意。¤The other party nods towards you as a gesture of acknowledgement.
阁下可有什么宝贝，不如我们交易一番。¤Do you have any treasures, why don't we make a trade?
不如我们交易一番。¤How about we make a trade?
道友，有何吩咐？¤Fellow Daoist, what can I do for you?
对方神色冷淡，并不想和你切磋，你准备离开。¤The other party had a cold expression and didn't want to duel with you. You prepared to leave.
对方{SayStcVal=923}地看着你，想看看你寓意为何？{w}{w=0.5}¤The other party gazes at you with {SayStcVal=923} curiosity, wanting to know the meaning behind your actions? {w}{w=0.5}
对方神色冷淡，并不想和你论道，你准备离开。¤The other person had a cold expression and didn't want to debate with you, so you decided to leave.
此次论道你受益匪浅，心满意足地和他道别。¤After this debate, you have gained a lot and bid farewell to him with a sense of satisfaction.
走？得罪了我{SayStcVal=920}，拿命来！¤Leave? Offend me {SayStcVal=920}, then prepare to die!
此次论道对方受益匪浅，心满意足地和你道别。¤After this debate, the other party benefited greatly and bid you farewell with satisfaction.
有事？{w}{w=0.5}¤Is there something? {w}{w=0.5}
对方{SayStcVal=923}地立于原地，不敢与你对视？{w}{w=0.5}¤The other party stood still and dared not look you in the eye? {w}{w=0.5}
有缘再会。¤We'll meet again by fate.
对方{SayStcVal=923}地看着你，想看看你意欲为何？{w}{w=0.5}¤The other party looked at you {SayStcVal=923}, wanting to know what you intended to do?{w}{w=0.5}
还请手下留情。¤Please have mercy.
可有什么宝贝，不如我们交易一番。¤Do you have any treasures? How about we make a trade?
哦？{FirstName}{LastName}，有什么事？¤Oh? {FirstName}{LastName}, what's the matter?
前辈我先告辞了。¤Senior, I will take my leave first.
你一剑击散了玄机真人的元婴，伴随着玄机真人的身死，威压渐渐散去，但地宫深处传来的煞气却愈发浓烈起来。¤You shattered the nascent soul of the expert Xuanhuan with a single sword strike. As Xuanhuan perished, the might suppression gradually dissipated, but the ominous energy emanating from the depths of the underground palace became increasingly strong.
你来到高处眺望，城市的西面似乎是曾经的坊市集聚之地，如今已是一片废墟。东面还保留着不少的建筑，依稀可以辨认出它们万年前的模样。¤You come to the top to look at the view, the west side of the city seems to be the former marketplace gathering place, now it is ruins. There are still many buildings preserved in the east, and you can vaguely recognize their appearance from ten thousand years ago.
古原城很大，想必万年以前修真者们在此地集会交易，定然是一番盛世景象。只是如今，这座恢弘的大城只剩下了一片断壁残垣与无尽的死寂。¤Gu Yuan City was once a grand trading hub where cultivators from all over gathered to conduct their businesses. It must have been a sight to behold in its prime, centuries ago. However, now this once magnificent city lies in ruins, with only rubble and endless silence remaining.
最显眼的则是城市北面的那座巨大的建筑，大小与天星城的星宫相仿，不知当年是何作用。¤The most eye-catching building is the giant structure to the north of the city, comparable in size to the Star Palace of Starsky City. Its purpose during its time of construction is unknown.
总的来说，炼器是一门将不同五维特性、不同阴阳属性、不同五行属性的材料融合在一起成器的法门，需通过挑选并搭配不同材料以获得想要的效果特性。¤Generally speaking, refining is a method of fusing materials with different attributes from the five elements, yin and yang, and attributes to create a tool. It requires selecting and combining different materials to obtain the desired effect and attributes.
本店售卖武器较多，有些武器本身便杀伤力十足，有些则用于给修士带来增益状态。¤In this store, there are many weapons for sale. Some of these weapons have a powerful killing ability, while others are used to provide enhancements to cultivators.
世间材料皆有五种属性：灵力亲和、灵力操控、灵性、坚固、坚韧；不同类型的材料，其五种属性各有高低。¤There are five attributes of materials in the world: affinity for spiritual power, control of spiritual power, spirituality, toughness, and tenacity; different types of materials have different levels of these attributes.
而即便是同一等级的法宝，由于其韧性，操控，灵性等五维属性不同，通常又会分成上中下品不等，售卖时的价位也差距很大。¤Even magic artifacts of the same level may vary greatly in price due to differences in their five attribute qualities of toughness, manipulation, spirituality, and others. The artifacts are usually divided into superior, moderate, and inferior categories based on their attributes.
请教不敢当，我对于炼器也只了解一些皮毛罢了。不过见过的法宝多，对于它的好坏倒是有一套判断的方法。¤I am humbled by your request and my knowledge of refining is only superficial. However, I have seen many artifacts and have a reliable method to judge their quality.
但真要说用起来趁不趁手，也还得看法宝与自身功法、神通的搭配。至于客官要哪件装备，一会儿可以根据自身情况慢慢挑选。¤However, in terms of actual usage, it depends on the combination of one's own artifacts, techniques, and divine skills. As for which equipment the customer wants, they can take their time selecting based on their own circumstances.
而这砺剑匣，本身倒是没有什么杀伤力，但是与御剑术搭配就十分合适。¤And this sharpening scabbard itself does not have much killing power, but it is very suitable when used in conjunction with sword magic.
法宝自然是品阶越高越是强力，客官要是手头阔绰，便可以挑些法器甚至是法宝级别的装备。¤The higher the class of the artifact, the more powerful it is. If you have the means, you can choose some magic tools or even treasures.
世间材料皆分五行，五行相生的材料自然可以融合成器，但材料之中若是五行相克就需要五行相合的炼器手法才能成器。¤All the materials in the world are categorized into five elements. Materials that are created by the interaction between these five elements can naturally be merged into a tool. However, if there is an interaction of mutual restraint between the materials, a refining technique called 'phasing' is needed in order to create the tool.
再深入的道理小的就不明白了，不过要提醒客官一句，炼器之道也颇为危险，领悟的不够精深就难以驾驭炼制高阶法宝，若强行炼制可能造成器胚爆炸伤及自身。¤I may not understand the deeper truths, but I must caution you, dear customer, that the path of refining artifacts is also quite dangerous. Without a profound enlightenment, it's difficult to control the process of creating high-level artifacts. If one attempts to force it, it's possible for the artifact embryo to explode, causing harm to oneself.
用不同阴阳、五行的材料炼制而成的同种武器，会具有不同的效果特性，而用同一组材料在炼制不同武器的时候也会呈现不同特性。¤Weapons made from the same materials but refined using different combinations of yin and yang or the five elements will have different properties and effects. Similarly, using the same set of materials to refine different weapons will also yield different characteristics.
比如我们这儿的火麟环，可用于灼烧对手，在善于火系功法的修士之间就有不错的销路。¤For example, the Ring of Fire we have here can be used to burn opponents, making it a popular item among cultivators who specialize in fire techniques.
防具大多会通过释放灵力护罩来保护修士，饰品则能提供特殊的防御效果。¤Most defence gear will protect cultivators by releasing spiritual shields, while accessories can provide special defence effects.
客官可以防具、饰品各选一样，一同使用效果最佳。¤Guests can choose one defence gear and one accessory each for best results when used together.
材料会提供灵力，凝聚足够的灵力便能产生对应的效果特性，灵力越多，效果越强力。¤Materials can provide spiritual power. With enough spiritual power condensed, corresponding special effects can be produced. The more spiritual power, the stronger the effects will be.
世间材料皆分天阳、地阴。同种五行属性不同种阴阳表现的效果也会不同，若要追求极致，通常在选材上应注重极阴、极阳。¤In this world, materials are divided into heavenly yang and earthly yin. Even materials with the same elemental attributes will have different effects based on their yin and yang characteristics. If one wants to pursue the ultimate results, they should generally focus on selecting materials that are extremely yin or extremely yang.
当然，除此之外还有不少效果甚好的武器，小的在此只是列举一二。¤Of course, there are many effective weapons besides these. I'll just list a few here.
想必客官清楚，法宝的品质由低到高分为符器、法器、法宝、纯阳法宝和通天灵宝五个等级。¤I believe you already know, that the quality of artifacts can be categorized into five levels, from low to high: Runic Weapon, Magic Tool, Artifact, Pure Yang Magic Weapon, and Spiritual Treasures.
修士道袍是最基础也是卖得最好的，再好点儿的，护体法袍也卖得不错。¤The cultivator's robe is the most basic and also the best-selling, while the protective body armor is also selling well.
客官如果想自行炼器，我这里正好有一本{color=#d0380a}《炼器入门》{/color}，领悟之后便能初窥炼器之门径，掌握基本的炼器手法，然后便能开始着手炼器了。客官想要的话，花上500灵石就行。¤If the customer wants to refine their own weapons, I happen to have an {color=#d0380a}《Introduction to Weaponry》{/color} here. After gaining enlightenment from it, they can begin to grasp the basics of refining and the necessary techniques to start. If the customer is interested, it will cost 500 spirit stones.
在炼制法宝时，若有一项属性为零则不能成器，同样五维各项越高越好，越能把灵力发挥到极致。¤When refining artifacts, if any attribute is zero, it cannot be successfully crafted. Similarly, the higher the attributes in the five dimensions, the better, as it can fully unleash the power of spiritual energy.
那客官您...要不看看其它的。¤Sir, would you like to take a look at other options?
客官您慢慢挑选。¤Guest, please take your time in choosing.
算了，我暂时还没有学习炼器的打算。¤Forget it, I have no plans to learn refining for the time being.
好嘞！本店售卖武器、防具、饰品，客官想了解哪一类呢？¤Alright! This store sells weapons, defence gear, and accessories. Customer, which category do you want to know more about?
但是只要手法熟练、搭配合适，阴阳混搭也可以炼出上好的法宝。¤However, as long as the technique is skilled and the matching is appropriate, the mixing of yin and yang can also refine excellent artifacts.
就算是苟活，那也比死了好。¤Even if it's just surviving, it's better than being dead.
只见他朝一个洞府入口跑去，却不知撞上了什么禁制，被硬生生弹了回来，摔倒在地上。¤I saw him running towards the entrance of a cave, but he didn't realize that he had hit some sort of restriction and was forcibly bounced back, falling to the ground.
枯木老祖面色一阵铁青，说话的声音也变得颤颤巍巍起来。¤Patriarch Deadwood's face turned ashen and his voice trembled as he spoke.
洞府中传来一股深不可测的声音，仿佛仅听这声音，你的神识便受到了触动，这使你瞬间警觉了起来。¤A deep and unfathomable voice echoed within the cave, as if your soul sense was triggered just by hearing it. This made you instantly alert.
明山…明山！¤Bright Mountain... Bright Mountain!
你一路追了过来，不难看出他的速度已经越来越慢，遁术的效果似乎已经消退殆尽。¤You chased after him all the way here, and it's not difficult to see that his speed has been getting slower. The mobility technique seems to have worn off completely.
看来太上长老并不想帮你，你也该为自己的所作所为付出代价了。¤It seems that the supreme elder does not want to help you. You should also pay the price for your own actions.
明山，你对我见死不救，难道不怕被心魔困扰吗？¤Mingshan, you watched me die without helping. Aren't you afraid of being troubled by the Demon Heart?
那…一直以来你都没对我们出手，难道不是因为念及旧情？¤That... You haven't made a move against us all this time, could it be because you were thinking of our past relationship?
神秘声音：若你当初听我一劝，不去修那枯木功，也不至于变成现在这副摸样。¤Mysterious voice: If you had listened to my advice and didn't practice the Deadwood Skill, you wouldn't have ended up in your current situation.
我要是不修枯木功，早就死了！！¤If I hadn't trained in the Deadwood Skill, I would've died long ago!!
你资质极佳，如今已是化神修为，只会站在顶点俯瞰众生，哪里知道我这几百年来盘算着寿元度日的辛苦？¤Your aptitude is excellent, and now you have reached the cultivation of deity transformation. You only stand at the top, looking down on all living beings. How could you understand the hardships I've endured over the past few hundred years, calculating my lifespan day by day?
你…你当真不念旧情？当年你熟识的人当中，可就只有我还活着了…¤You... you really don't think about our past relationship? Among all the people you knew back then, I'm the only one still alive...
可当年我们天魔眼中共同杀敌的时候你便说过，绝不会对我见死不救的！¤But back then, when we were fighting together with our Heavenly Devil's Eye, you said you would never abandon me to face death!
神秘声音：你修那枯木功，破坏了对灵气的感知，便已与结婴无缘，只是苟活于世罢了。¤Mysterious voice: If you cultivate the deadwood skill, you will destroy your perception of spiritual energy and become unable to achieve nascent status. You will only be able to survive in this world.
枯木老祖就像溺水的人拼命想抓住救命稻草一般，敲打着禁制。此情此景被你看在眼里，不禁觉得有些好笑。¤Patriarch Deadwood was frantically grasping at straws, pounding on the prohibition array like a drowning man. You couldn't help but find it a bit amusing to witness such a scene.
他用干枯的喉咙喊出嘶哑的声音。你能感受到，洞府内那位实力定然非同小可。¤He shouted hoarsely with his dry throat. You can feel that the cave he's in must be occupied by someone of extraordinary strength.
枯木老祖开始气急败坏起来。¤Patriarch Deadwood started to become angry and anxious.
明山，救我！¤明山, save me!
面对枯木老祖的求情，洞府内并没有回应。¤In response to Patriarch Deadwood's plea, there was no response from the cave.
可是我想活！！！！¤But I want to live！！！！
神秘声音：化神并不是顶点，若是渡劫失败，我同样也只是虚度千载而已。我们所能做的，只有坚守自己的道，并一直走到最后罢了。¤Mysterious voice: Deity transformation is not the ultimate goal. Even if tribulation fails, I will just be wasting away for centuries. All we can do is to stick to our own path and keep going until the end.
看来你师兄并不想帮你，你也该为自己的所作所为付出代价了。¤It seems like your senior brother doesn't want to help you. You should also pay the price for your actions.
见此情形，你没有贸然出手，只是在一旁静观事态发展。¤Upon seeing this situation, you did not act recklessly but only observed the development of the situation from the side.
神秘声音：当年...¤Mysterious Voice: Back then...
半晌，也许是累了，也许是明白了什么，枯木老祖不再发问，只是缓缓转过身，眼神空洞。¤After a long while, perhaps tired or perhaps having understood something, Patriarch Deadwood stopped asking questions and just slowly turned around, his gaze empty.
神秘声音：心魔？你以金丹修为活过千载，本就是逆天而行。如今命数已尽，不过是顺应天道而已，我又怎会生出心魔？¤Mysterious voice: Demon heart? You have cultivated to the Golden Core realm for over a thousand years, going against the natural order of things. Now that your life has come to an end, it's only following the will of heaven. How could I possibly have planted a demon heart in you?
你的第二个灵根属性是？¤What is your second spiritual root attribute?
老夫已为你重置了化神领域。¤I have reset the deity transformation domain for you.
你的第三个灵根属性是？¤What is your third spiritual root attribute?
老夫已为你重置了悟道天赋。¤I have already reset your enlightenment talent for you.
你希望现在的化神领域是？¤What deity transformation domain do you hope to have now?
你的第一个灵根属性是？¤What is your first spiritual root attribute?
你的灵根属性是？¤What are your spiritual root attributes?
你希望现在的灵根资质是？¤What spiritual root aptitude do you hope to have now?
老夫已为你重置了灵根的属性。¤I have already reset your spiritual root's attributes for you.
找到了找到了...！¤Found it, found it...!
这大蛇合你我之力恐怕难伤其分毫，幸好我这里还留了张我爹给的传送符。¤This giant snake combined with our strength, I'm afraid it's difficult to harm it even a bit. Luckily, I still have a teleportation symbol given to me by my father.
虽然传送到哪里我也不太确定...但总比现在的情况要好吧！¤Although I'm not entirely sure where I've been transported to...it's still better than my current situation!
你只感到一只手搭上你的左肩，下一瞬间已是天旋地转。¤You only feel a hand resting on your left shoulder, and the next moment the world spins around you.
倪旭欣也不避讳，当着你的面掐了几个复杂的手诀，口中念念有词。¤Ni Xuxin didn't shy away, and in front of you, she formed several complex hand seals while muttering words under her breath.
不远处传来一阵激烈的灵气波动。为了一探究竟，你收敛气息潜了过去。¤Not far away, there was a sudden surge of intense spiritual energy. In order to find out what's going on, you suppressed your own aura and stealthily approached the area.
在距你不过数丈之远的地方，那异种魔狠狠地将师妹撞倒在地，眼看下一招便要致其于死地。¤Just a few zhang away from you, that mixed demon ruthlessly knocked down your sister apprentice and was about to deliver a fatal blow.
你趁迅疾异种魔不备，向其攻了过去。¤You take advantage of the mixed demon being caught off guard and attack it swiftly.
那异种魔飞快地冲了上前，直奔逃跑的师妹。那师妹本就负伤，哪能跑过迅疾异种魔？¤The mixed demon rushed forward quickly, heading straight for the fleeing sister. The sister was already injured, how could she outrun the swift mixed demon?
若是寻常筑基修士，一人对峙一只异种魔已是极限，他一人牵制两只异种魔，竟还能分神照顾师妹，真是不简单。¤If it were an ordinary cultivator at the foundation building stage, facing off against one mixed demon would already be their limit. But he alone was able to hold back two mixed demons and still divide his attention to take care of his sister. Truly impressive.
你不想受到牵连，趁他们打的不可开交之时，敛息偷偷离开了。¤You don't want to be implicated, so while they were in a fierce fight, restrain your breathing and secretly leave.
根本来不及多想，那名师妹朝你所在的方向跑了过来。¤Without even having time to think, the sister disciple ran towards the direction where you were.
忍住。¤Hold on.
啊——¤Ah——
而就在这数息时间，迅疾异种魔便挣脱了束缚。¤And in just a few breaths' time, the mixed demon broke free from the binding.
事态发展远远超出了你的预料，那师兄露出了难以置信的神情，硬是愣了数息时间。¤The situation has far exceeded your expectations, and that senior brother had an incredulous expression, staring blankly for a few moments.
虽说强行避开了要害，但她的后背还是被撕开了三道血淋淋的伤口。¤Although she forcibly avoided the vital points, three bloody wounds were still torn open on her back.
一只自愈能力极强的异种魔竟不顾自身缠绕，优先帮迅疾异种魔撕开了身上的藤曼。¤A mixed demon with strong self-healing abilities disregarded its own tangled state and prioritized helping a swift mixed demon tear open the vines that were entangling it.
而那位清秀修士一边操控藤曼的同时，当机立断，反手便将她拉开。¤While that handsome cultivator manipulated the Vine Man, he decisively pulled her away with one hand.
只见那只迅疾异种魔身上莫名被腕粗的藤蔓缠绕，一时间行动严重受阻。¤I saw that the swift mixed demon was inexplicably tangled by thick vines, seriously impeding its movements for a time.
师兄回过神来，施展神通打算重新控制住局面，但却是为时已晚。¤Senior brother snapped back to reality and planned to use his divine skill to regain control of the situation, but it was already too late.
快跑。¤Run quickly.
可毕竟一个人的力量是有限的，在控制迅疾异种魔的同时，他对另外两只异种魔的控制自然便有了疏漏。¤However, one's power is limited, and while controlling the swift mixed demon, there was naturally negligence in controlling the other two mixed demons.
只见三只形态各异的异种魔，正在围攻穿着竹山宗服饰的二人。¤I see three mixed demons with different shapes, attacking the two people in bamboo mountain sect costumes.
其中一人面容清秀，一人牵制二敌尚能气息沉稳，但另一人则不然，面对一只异种魔却早已手忙脚乱。¤One of them had delicate facial features, while the other was able to steady his breath while holding back two enemies. However, the last person was quite the opposite, already flustered in the face of a mixed demon.
也罢，便助你们一臂之力好了。¤Fine, I'll lend you a hand then.
原来那位师兄已提前运好驱藤术，趁异种魔进攻之时用藤曼将其牢牢缠住，提供了喘息之机。¤It turned out that Senior Brother had already prepared the Vine Retaliation technique in advance, using the Vine Man to tightly entangle and provide a breathing space while the Mixed Demon was attacking.
这时，其中一只异种魔陡然加速，攻向修为较弱的那位。其速度远超普通筑基修士，爪子眼看便要洞穿她的身体。¤At this moment, one of the mixed demons suddenly accelerated and attacked the weaker cultivator. Its speed far exceeded that of a regular foundation building cultivator, and its claws were about to penetrate her body.
客房已经收拾好了，心儿你带{FirstName}小友过去吧。¤The guest room has been tidied up. Little Xin, please take young friend {FirstName} there.
林沐心不耐烦地偏过头，一副你能拿我怎么办的模样。¤what can you do to me?
林沐心悄悄地靠近你，告诉你这位是比较照顾她的大长老通羽上人。¤Lin Muxin quietly approaches you and tells you that this is Venerable Tongyu, the grand elder who takes care of her.
心儿，不给我们介绍一下这位年轻人吗？¤Little Xin, why don't you introduce this young man to us?
真是反了天了！¤It's really messed up!
长老此言差矣，每个人都有自己的秘密，难不成什么都拿到明面上来才是大家之秀吗？¤Elder's words are incorrect. Everyone has their own secrets. Does everything need to be made public to be considered a show of unity?
是，栖云长老。这位是{FirstName}{LastName}道友。¤Yes, Elder Qiyun. This is Fellow Daoist {FirstName}{LastName}.
昨日我在城外遇到了禾山道的邪修，多亏了{FirstName}道友出手相助，我才能活着回来。¤Yesterday I met a wicked cultivator from the Mt. Harvest Sect outside the city. Thanks to {FirstName} fellow daoist's help, I was able to return alive.
（低声）这个是二长老苗矮上人，平日就他最爱找我麻烦。¤(Whispering) This is Elder Miaoai, the second elder. He always likes to cause trouble for me on a daily basis.
（低声）刚刚说话的那位就是三长老栖云...¤(Whispering) The person who just spoke was Elder San Chang Qiyun...
通羽长老听到林沐心的话善意地对你一笑，苗矮长老冷哼一声，一旁的栖云长老则审视地看着你。¤Elder Tongyu kindly gave you a smile upon hearing Lin Muxin's words, while Elder Miaoa hummed coldly and Elder Qiyun scrutinized you from the side.
哼，什么回来就好。这几日她这点给事府上添了多少麻烦？¤Hmph, it's good that you're back. How much trouble has she caused the manor these past few days?
你看到这一幕，心下对于几位长老也有了初步的了解。¤As you witness this scene, you gain a preliminary understanding of the elders.
似乎是因为你这个外人在场，长老并没有过多苛责林沐心出逃的事。¤It seems that because you, an outsider, were present, the elder did not overly blame Lin Muxin for her escape.
交头接耳像什么话！哪有点大家之秀的样子！¤Whispering like this, what kind of show is that supposed to be for everyone to see?!
行了苗矮，心儿他们刚刚回来，还是让他们好好休息一番。¤Miao Ai, it's all right. Xin Er and the others just came back. Let them rest for a while.
回来就好，回来就好。¤Coming back is good, coming back is good.
你随着林沐心的脚步走入大厅，厅中几位长老分散坐在圆桌边等待着你们。¤You follow Lin Muxin's footsteps into the grand hall where several elders sit around a round table, waiting for you.
这位前辈，可是来参加下一次的拍卖会么？¤Senior, are you here to participate in the next auction?
咳咳咳...看来还是道友更胜一筹啊。¤*cough cough*... Looks like fellow daoist is still superior.
说罢，她朝你行了个拱手礼，就跳下赛台不见了。¤After saying that, she bowed to you and jumped off the competition platform and disappeared.
你...很强。¤You... are very strong.
不错！不愧是我的好徒儿，你当戒骄戒躁，再接再厉。¤Not bad! You are indeed my good disciple. You must guard against arrogance and impetuosity, and continue to work hard.
对面修为不弱，输了便是技不如人，别垂头丧气的。¤The opponent's cultivation level is not weak. Losing only means their skill was not as good as the other person's. Don't feel dejected.
我们公孙家最欣赏你这样有潜力的少年英杰，我相信我们还会在云汐城再见的。¤Our Gongsun family values young talents like you who have great potential. I believe we will meet again in Yun Shi City.
你击败了夺魁热门的百里奇，台下观众一片哗然。¤You defeated the leading candidate, Baili Qi, causing a commotion among the audience.
若有哪位道友能让我百里奇战个痛快，或是战胜我，我便愿把这筑基\r丹亲手奉上！我在广陵城百里府随时欢迎切磋，恭候诸位挑战！¤If there is any fellow daoist who can give me a good duel or defeat me, I am willing to offer this Foundation Building Pill personally! I am always ready to duel at Baili Mansion in Guangling City and I eagerly await any challenges!
输在{xiongdi}你手上，倒也不算吃亏。¤Losing to you, my brother, isn't really a loss.
锣鼓喧天，鞭炮齐鸣，你接过升仙台管事恭恭敬敬端上来的筑基丹，伴着阵阵喝彩声，在众人的注目下，离开了会场。¤With loud beating of drums and firecrackers resounding, you received the Foundation Pill respectfully handed to you by the steward of the Ascension Terrace. Amidst cheers from the crowd and all eyes on you, you left the gathering.
英杰会挺有趣嘛，不过还是我厉害，嘻嘻。¤The young hero's tournament is quite interesting, but I'm still powerful, hehe.
我说{xiongdi}，你下手也太重了点吧！¤I say brother, you're being a little too heavy-handed with your attacks!
好不容易打进了决赛...真不甘心...¤It was so hard to make it into the finals...I'm really not reconciled...
百里奇接过筑基丹，向台下的观众朗声说道。¤Baili Qi took the Foundation Pill and spoke loudly towards the audience below the stage.
别怪兄弟我下手重啊，我要是今年再不拿个英杰会的冠军回去，我那老爹绝饶不了我。¤Don't blame me for being too heavy-handed, brother. If I don't bring back the championship of the Young Hero's Tournament this year, my old man will definitely not let me off the hook.
徒儿莫要灰心，这才修炼多少年？已经很不错了，好好修炼，准备万全之后，咱们再去百里府试试吧。¤Don't be disheartened, disciple. You have only been cultivating for a few years. It's already impressive. Keep on cultivating and when you are ready, we will go to Baili Mansion for a test.
唉，算了算了，反正要不是我爹逼着，我也懒得来参加这英杰会。¤Ah, forget it. If it wasn't for my dad forcing me, I wouldn't bother coming to participate in this Young Hero's Tournament.
{xiongdi}日后若是路过广陵城，请务必来百里府一叙，到时我再与{xiongdi}讨教！¤{xiongdi}, if you ever pass through Guangling City in the future, please be sure to come to Baili Mansion for a chat. At that time, I will discuss and learn from you!
恭喜{FirstName}{LastName}选手获得本届英杰会的冠军！¤Congratulations {FirstName}{LastName} for winning the championship in this year's Young Hero's Tournament! You have gained great honor and recognition for your skills and strength.
早就听说上一届冠军{FirstName}{LastName}实力不凡，今日的比试，果然没有让我失望。¤I have heard early on that the previous champion {FirstName}{LastName} was exceptional in strength. Today's competition has proven to be no disappointment.
{FirstName}{LastName}...有意思，能在英杰会上认识你这样的对手，也算不虚此行了。¤{FirstName}{LastName}... It's interesting to be able to meet a worthy opponent like you in the young hero's tournament. This trip was not in vain.
你这{xiaozi}才修炼没几日，能过打进决赛就已经算不错了。¤You have only been cultivating for a few days, {xiaozi}, so making it to the finals is already quite impressive.
在下云汐城公孙季，我云汐城与公孙家如今正广纳贤才，若有青年才\r俊，随时可来我云汐城之中寻找机缘。¤I am Gongsun Ji of Yun Shi City. Currently, Yun Shi City and the Gongsun family are actively recruiting talented individuals. If there are young talents, they are welcome to come to Yun Shi City to seek opportunities at any time.
若得空闲，不如来{color=#d0380a}天星城林府{/color}找我，我们好好聊聊，嘻嘻。¤If you have some free time, why not come and find me at the {color=#d0380a}Starsky City Lin House{/color} so we can have a nice chat, hehe.
我自幼便学习家族的炼体秘术，一般的炼气修士都不是我三合之敌...¤Since my childhood, I have been learning my family's body refinement secret arts. Ordinary cultivators who practice qi refining are not even worth three moves against me...
恭喜{FirstName}{LastName}选手再一次获得英杰会的冠军！¤Congratulations to {FirstName}{LastName} for once again winning the champion of the young hero's tournament! They have gained yet another impressive victory.
道友以后若是路过{color=#d0380a}天星城{/color}，顺道来{color=#d0380a}林府{/color}与我论道吧。¤Fellow daoist, if you happen to pass by Starsky City in the future, come visit Lin House for a debate with me.
不错，是我太坐井观天了，以前只把那些大门派大家族的年轻一辈当做对手，今日与{xiongdi}一战，才知天下之大。\n¤Not bad, it was I who was too narrow-minded. Before, I only considered the younger generation of those major sects and clans as my opponents. But after fighting with {xiongdi} today, I now realize the vastness of the world.
{FirstName}{LastName}道友果然不同凡响，我认输啦。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}{LastName} is truly extraordinary, I concede.
哎哟哟...疼，疼，疼！¤Ouch... it hurts, it hurts, it hurts!
能打赢我的，你是第一个。¤You are the first person who can beat me.
这筑基丹，我本无意争夺，我只是想与同阶强者切磋罢了。¤I have no intention of fighting over this foundation pill. I simply want to duel stronger peers at the same level.
公孙季一收折扇，抱拳拱手，向你和台下观众们各施了一礼。¤Gongsun Ji folds his fan and bows to you and the audience below the stage with clasped hands.
{xiongdi}过谦了，这擂台之上，赢了就是赢了，何来侥幸一说。\n¤My {xiongdi}, you are too modest. On this arena, winning means winning. There is no such thing as luck.
我道怎有人敢在林府动手，原来是你这老怪。怎么，难不成还想入主林家？¤I wonder who would dare to lay hands on the Lin House, turns out it's you, old monster. What? Are you planning to take over the Lin Family?
小友以后便是林府座上宾客，可以随意出入林府。¤From now on, Young Friend will be an honored guest of the Lin House and can come and go freely.
找到了，这玉简便是证据，请通羽前辈过目。¤Found it. This jade scroll is the evidence. Please have Senior Tongyu take a look at it.
不错，你通羽既是出手护住此人，也该给我个说法了。¤Not bad, since you have saved this person with your power, you should also give me an explanation.
呵呵，那我也告辞了，等丹阳兄出关再来找他论道。¤Well then, I'll take my leave too. I'll come back to debate with him when Dan Yang Brother comes out of seclusion.
无惑真人一时为之气结，但又拿丹阳子无可奈何，只能选择在夹着尾巴离开时不住地咒骂丹阳子，并期待他此次强行出关导致修为大退。¤Paragon Confusionless was momentarily furious and at a loss for words, unable to do anything against Yang Pill. He could only curse and curse at Yang Pill incessantly as he left with his tail between his legs, hoping that his forceful emergence from seclusion this time would lead to a significant loss in cultivation.
哦？你的意思是我的徒儿配不上你林府二小姐，所以才要贿赂？¤Oh? Are you saying that my disciple is not worthy of your Second Miss Lin from the Lin House, and that's why you have to bribe us?
家主...是我无能，竟在你闭关时出了这样的乱子。¤The clan leader...it's my incompetence that caused such a mess during your cultivation.
无妨无妨，那我便告辞了。¤No matter, no matter, then I will take my leave.
哼，在林府出手是我徒儿不对，但你林府强行打断结侣典礼一事，我也会如实汇报宫主。她可是一向在意星宫的颜面。¤Hmph, it was wrong of my disciple to take action in Lin House, but I will also report truthfully to the palace master about Lin House forcefully interrupting the bonding ceremony. She has always cared about the prestige of Star Palace.
如诸位所见，星宫与林家内部有些纷争，如此丑事就不留大家旁观了，还请各位海涵。¤As you can see, there are some internal conflicts within Star Palace and Lin Family. Let's not allow such ugly affairs to be watched by everyone, please forgive us.
不必谦虚，此次也是多亏{FirstName}小友助力。不但搜集了栖云与冲虚勾结的证据，还引冲虚出手，让我于闭关中发现了他们师徒的恶计。¤I need not be modest, this time it is thanks to my young friend {FirstName}'s help. Not only did they gather evidence of the collusion between Qiyun and Chongxu, they also lured Chongxu into taking action, allowing me to uncover the evil plans of their master and disciple while cultivating.
无惑大长老，贵徒为了与林沐心结成道侣，贿赂我府三长老。如今证据在此，我林府自然要先彻查三长老，让家主发落。这大典也就不得不...¤Grand Elder Wuhuo, your disciple bribed our San Chang in order to become Dao companions with Lin Muxin. Now that the evidence is here, our Lin House must thoroughly investigate the San Chang and let our clan leader make the decision. This grand ceremony cannot proceed without...
就你这点实力，不过米粒之光，战胜你有何难？若不是在林家大殿之内，场地太小了些，我只会赢得更快。¤With only your strength, you are but a speck of rice light. What difficulty is there in defeating you? If it weren't for the small space in the Lin family's main hall, I would have won even faster.
好了好了，为父不拿你姐妹俩说笑。¤Alright, that's enough. Father won't joke about you sisters anymore.
你再重复一遍之前的话语后，他才反应过来。¤After you repeated your previous words, he finally reacted.
待那两人出了林府后，通羽上人才望向丹阳子和你。¤After those two people left the Lin House, Venerable Tongyu finally looked towards Yang Pill and you.
而你则是一脸淡然地看着对方，气息虽也是有些杂乱，但除此之外并无大碍。¤But you looked at each other calmly, with a slightly chaotic aura but otherwise unharmed.
倒是栖云，嗯，不提也罢。¤It's better not to mention Qi Yun.
通羽上人却还没从冲虚散人被你击败的冲击中恢复，久久未作言语。¤Venerable Tongyu remained silent for a long time after the defeat inflicted by Hermit Chong Xu, yet to recover from the impact.
通羽前辈，幸不辱命，晚辈找到证据了。¤Senior Tongyu, fortunately I have not disappointed you. The evidence has been found by this junior.
通羽上人领命离开。¤Venerable Tongyu left after receiving orders.
住手！先听他把话说完再动手也不迟。¤Stop! It wouldn't hurt to let him finish speaking first before taking action.
心儿？她在哪？¤Heart? Where is she?
不用担心，我们还是先处理当下的事吧。¤Don't worry, let's deal with the present situation first.
若不是我倡导结侣自由，都想让雪儿和心儿与你结缘，籍此拉拢了，哈哈哈。¤If it weren't for me advocating for freedom in choosing our partners, everyone would want Little Snow and Little Xin to form a relationship with you, just to win you over. Hahaha.
就是配不上！我丹阳子的女儿岂是你贾良行那废物徒弟想娶就能娶的！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤I'm just not a match for you! My daughter, Dan Yangzi, is not someone that your worthless disciple, Jia Liangxing, can just marry at will! {vpunch=10,0.5}
前辈谬赞了，只是他冲虚实力不济，晚辈没感到压力而已。¤Senior overpraises me, it's just that my strength in charging through the void is not enough, and the junior didn't feel any pressure.
好，好，很好，小友果然没有辜负心儿的信任，而且还远远超出了我们的期望，好，很好。¤Good, good, very good. Young friend has truly lived up to little xin's trust and even surpassed our expectations. Very good.
一时间除冲虚满溢着不甘的话语外，林府大殿竟是满座皆寂，可谓是了无声息，哪里还像是之前那个结侣典礼现场。¤For a moment, apart from the resentful words overflowing from Chong Xu, the Lin House main hall was filled with silence. It could be said that there was no sound at all, and it was no longer like the scene of the previous couple-bonding ceremony.
这结丹所用的聚顶丹与一件我个人收藏的上品法器防具便是相赠于你，希望能为小友助力些许。除此之外，小友以后便是林府座上宾客，可以随意出入林府。¤The core condensing pill used to form this core, along with a top-grade defense gear that I personally collected, will be given to you as a gift, young friend. I hope they will be of some help to you. In addition, you will be a welcomed guest of the Lin House from now on and can come and go as you please.
{FirstName}小友，这次确是多亏了你，不但搜集了栖云与冲虚勾结的证据，还引冲虚出手，让我于闭关中发现了他们师徒的恶计。¤{FirstName} young friend, I must thank you this time. Not only did you collect evidence of the collusion between Qiyun and Chongxu, but you also provoked Chongxu to reveal himself, allowing me to cultivate in seclusion and uncover their evil plans as master and disciple.
二小姐她....¤Miss Er she...
冲虚本意是身负重伤，强撑着而已，被你一激更是行气不畅而口吐鲜血，身上的伤只怕是又重了几分。¤The original meaning of Chongxu is suffering from serious injuries, and he was only barely supporting himself. However, after being provoked by you, his body's Qi flow was obstructed and he spat out blood. It's likely that his injuries have worsened even more.
无需自责，你已经做的不错了，和星宫其他分支联姻也本是惯例，苗矮也无罪责，只是被无惑这老匹夫的徒弟钻了空子而已。¤No need to blame yourself, you have already done well. It is customary for the Star Palace to form alliances with other branches. Miao Ai is not guilty, he was just taken advantage of by the disciple of the old man Wu Huo.
这可是林家大殿，还由不得你胡来！¤This is the Lin family's main hall, you can't just mess around here!
请便，若是没有其他事，现在就可以去。至于你那废物徒儿想强娶我宝贝女儿一事，晚点再跟你算账！¤Please go ahead, if there's nothing else. As for your useless apprentice attempting to forcefully marry my precious daughter, we'll settle the score later!
通羽不敢，但...¤Tongyu didn't dare, but...
小友不必客气。那我便先去处理家事了，让雪儿陪你逛逛林府吧。¤Dear young friend, no need to be polite. I'll go take care of some household matters first, and let Little Snow accompany you for a tour around Lin House.
说法？是该给个说法，不过是你给我！¤Explanation? An explanation should be given, but it should be given by you!
{FirstName}小友好胆识，竟敢以{$Var}面对金丹期强者。¤{FirstName} the young friend has remarkable courage to confront a golden core expert with {$Var}.
{FirstName}小友可是找到我要的东西了？¤Has young friend {FirstName} found the thing I asked for?
面对在座各位前辈投来的不同目光，你只是面带笑容淡然说出四字，然后便走向通羽上人。¤Faced with the various gazes from the seniors present, you simply smiled and calmly uttered four words before walking towards Venerable Tongyu.
小友不必客气。¤Young friend, don't be polite.
此人坏我大典，我怎能容他！¤This person has damaged our great book. How can I tolerate him?
林沐雪半是嗔怪半是娇羞地看着丹阳子，后者也只是哈哈一笑，转而谈及其他话题而已。¤Lin Muxue looked at Danyangzi, half annoyed and half shy, while the latter just smiled and changed the subject to something else.
好，很好，小友果然没有辜负心儿的信任。¤Good, very good. Young friend has not let Little Xin down.
通羽上人没有理会冲虚散人，而是转向宾客。¤Venerable Tongyu ignored Hermit Chong Xu and turned towards the guests.
通羽，这是我徒儿的结侣典礼，你将宾客遣散是何用意？¤Tong Yu, this is the bonding ceremony of my disciple. What's the meaning of you dispersing the guests?
哈哈哈，无惑的徒弟在我眼里虽是废物，但他毕竟是金丹期。只能说小友的实力已是卓绝筑基，势凌金丹。¤Hahaha, although my disciple without confusion is trash in my eyes, he is still at the golden core stage after all. I can only say that this young friend's strength is already exceptional at the foundation building stage, overpowering even those at the golden core stage.
冲虚满脸惊骇地看着你，但在座不乏金丹甚至元婴修士，又有谁能预见到你竟能轻易击败金丹后期的冲虚散人。¤Hermit Chong Xu's face was filled with shock as he looked at you. However, there were also Golden Core and even Nascent Soul cultivators present. Who could have predicted that you would be able to easily defeat the late Golden Core Hermit Chong Xu?
你也不再理会他，在满座宾客的注视下走向通羽上人¤You no longer paid attention to him, walking towards Venerable Tongyu amidst the gaze of the crowded guests.
无妨，我已传音给心儿叫她回来。你和苗矮先把栖云押入密室，晚点我再过去。¤Don't worry, I've contacted Little Xin to ask her to come back. You and Miao Ai can take Qiyun to the secret chamber for now, and I'll come over later.
冲虚，住手。¤Chong Xu, stop.
咳...咳咳，你究竟是何方神圣，竟...竟然...不！我不信！¤Cough...cough, who the hell are you, how could you...no! I don't believe it!
你！你什么意思！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤You! What do you mean! {vpunch=10,0.5}
通羽上人正欲上前劝阻冲虚散人，却发现他已是跌坐于地，衣袍破裂，身负血痕，乃至体内的灵气也是紊乱不息。¤Venerable Tongyu was about to step forward to dissuade Hermit Chong Xu, but he noticed that the latter had already fallen to the ground, his clothes torn and his body covered in bloodstains, with even the spiritual energy within him in a state of restlessness.
见过前辈。晚辈终究还是实力不济，让前辈见笑了。¤Seen senior. Junior's strength is ultimately lacking, embarrassing senior.
哼，算你走运。¤Hmph, consider yourself lucky.
通羽，这是我徒儿的结侣典礼，你找人打伤我徒儿又将宾客遣散是何用意？¤Tong Yu, this is my disciple's joining ceremony. What was the point of hurting my disciple and dispersing the guests?
冲虚散人早已是怒不可遏，驱动神通便是全力向你攻来。¤The Hermit Chong Xu was already furious, and unleashed his Divine Skill to fiercely attack you with all his might.
若是真的，那此事可不像冲虚道友说的那般有风度。¤If it's true, then this matter doesn't seem as graceful as Fellow Daoist Chong Xu described.
难道当年坏我机缘的是你？！¤Could it be that you were the one who ruined my chance back then?!
要知道，修士突破瓶颈虽然困难万分，但突破成功之后对于修士本身的精、气、神都是有莫大的提升。¤You should know that although it is extremely difficult for cultivators to break through their bottlenecks, a successful breakthrough will greatly enhance their spirit, energy, and vitality.
守门弟子带你到星宫大殿前便是推说还有其他要事在身，急忙退下。¤The gate disciple led you to the front of the Star Palace's main hall and quickly excused himself, saying there were other matters to attend to.
不过是闲云野鹤一散修，叫我厉道友就好。¤Just a wandering cultivator, a fellow daoist can call me Li.
恭喜冲虚道友晋阶元婴期，星宫又是多了一位元婴修士啊，可喜可贺。¤Congratulations fellow daoist Chong Xu on advancing to the nascent soul stage. The Star Palace has gained another nascent soul cultivator, which is truly something to celebrate.
王登带你到星宫大殿前便是推说还有其他要事在身，急忙退下。¤Wang Deng took you to the front of the Star Palace's grand hall before excusing himself, claiming that he had other urgent matters to attend to.
嘿嘿，冲虚道友不愿承认自己是废物，我可以理解。毕竟要不是参与了多年前的林府事件，我也想不到冲虚道友作为星宫长老竟能如此无耻。¤Hehe, Fellow Daoist Chong Xu doesn't want to admit that he's trash, I can understand that. After all, if it weren't for his participation in the Lin House incident years ago, I wouldn't have thought that a Star Palace Elder like Fellow Daoist Chong Xu could be so shameless.
不敢，我不过是平平无奇一散修罢了。倒是冲虚道友真是令人景仰，竟能在寿元将尽前突破。若是换做其他修士只怕已是心境难稳，难过心魔这一关。¤I dare not, I am only an ordinary wandering cultivator. Fellow Daoist Chong Xu, on the other hand, is truly admirable, as he was able to break through before his lifespan is about to end. If it were other cultivators, they would probably have a hard time stabilizing their mental state and overcoming the demon heart.
不敢不敢，是师尊教导得好，我作为弟子不过是恪守师尊的教导而已。¤I dare not, I dare not. It is all thanks to the guidance of my master that I am but following and upholding their teachings as a disciple.
走入大殿时，冲虚散人果然已是在殿中等候。相比多年前垂垂老矣一看就是寿元无多的样貌，现在的冲虚散人看起来是年轻许多，只是有些异样的苍白。你估摸这便是用所谓的邪术突破留下的后遗症。¤When I entered the hall, the hermit Chong Xu was already waiting inside. Compared to how he looked years ago, when he was clearly reaching the end of his lifespan, he now appears much younger, albeit with a peculiar paleness. You can guess this is likely a side effect of using some sort of forbidden magic to make a breakthrough.
听说道友曾想与林家二小姐结为道侣，并利用星宫秘术与她双修以突破瓶颈，最后未尝所愿。可有此事？¤I heard fellow daoist once wished to become the Lin family 2nd sister's dao companion, and used star palace secret arts to cultivate together and break through their bottleneck, but ultimately did not succeed. Is this true?
冲虚散人狂笑着，同时一道强劲的神识扫过你的位置，却被林家秘宝轻易屏蔽了去，让其探查完全失效。¤Hermit Chong Xu laughed wildly, while a powerful soul sense swept over your position, but was easily blocked by the Lin family secret treasure, rendering the exploration completely ineffective.
等等...我竟然无法察探知到你的境界...难道突破元婴比我更早！？{vpunch=10,0.5}不，不，这不可能！¤Wait...I can't seem to sense your cultivation level...did you break through to the nascent soul stage before me!? {vpunch=10,0.5} No, no, this can't be possible!
那冲虚散人原本苍白的脸“刷”的一下便是涌上潮红，显然是你给他留下的印象不浅。¤The hermit Chong Xu's originally pale face brushed with a flush, obviously leaving quite an impression on him.
好啊好啊，当年有丹阳子护着，我没能拿你怎样。如今竟还敢送上门来，那你的小命我就笑纳了，哼哈哈哈！¤Okay, okay. Back then, with Dan Yangzi protecting you, I couldn't do anything to you. But now you dare to come to me voluntarily, so I'll accept your life with a laugh, hahaha!
原来是厉道友，久仰久仰。¤Original: 原来是厉道友，久仰久仰。
你在观察冲虚散人时，对方也是注意到站在大殿门口的你。¤When you were observing the Hermit Chong Xu, she also noticed you standing at the gate of the main hall.
当你提到这个话题时，冲虚原本苍白的脸色更是变得发青，一丝狠色闪过，但仅是瞬息便已消失不见。¤When you mentioned this topic, Chongxu's originally pale face turned even more green, a trace of viciousness flashed by, but it disappeared in an instant.
哼，我看道友是修炼走火入魔乃至神智不清了，竟来我星宫胡言乱语。来人，送...¤Hmph, I see that my fellow daoist has gone astray in their cultivation, even to the point of losing their sanity, to come to my Star Palace and talk nonsense. Guards, take...
哈哈哈，冲虚道友果然是正道典范，此等风度，令我深感钦佩。¤Hahaha, Fellow Daoist Chong Xu is truly a model of the righteous path. Your exemplary bearing has deeply impressed me.
抱歉抱歉，我有些口无遮拦，还请冲虚道友不要介怀。¤Apologies, apologies, I tend to speak without a filter. Please don't take offense, fellow Daoist Chun Xu.
呵，境界有什么意义，就你这没用的废物，当年我就能击败你，现在更不用说！¤What's the point of realm? You useless waste! I could defeat you back then, let alone now!
走入大殿时，冲虚散人果然已是在殿中等候。相比多年前垂垂老矣一看就是寿元无多的样貌，现在的冲虚散人看起来是年轻许多，只是有些异常的苍白。你估摸这便是用所谓的邪术突破留下的后遗症。¤When you entered the main hall, Hermit Chong Xu was already waiting there. Compared to years ago when he looked aged and near the end of his lifespan, he now looks much younger, albeit unusually pale. You suspect this is the side effect of using some sort of forbidden magic to make a breakthrough.
冲虚道友果然与众不同，竟能把那种无耻的行为称之为机缘，让人眼界大开啊哈哈哈。¤Fellow daoist Chong Xu is truly unique, as he can call that shameless behavior 'fortune', which really broadens one's horizons. Hahaha!
哪怕是在突破过程中不太顺利，经脉和神识有所受损，突破成功后也不会像冲虚散人一般面透体虚，像是潜力被榨干。¤Even if the breakthrough process is not smooth and the meridians and soul sense are damaged, after successfully breaking through, one will not appear as weak as Hermit Chong Xu, seeming like potential has been completely drained.
却有此事，但星宫素来反感为了双修而结成道侣，我作为星宫长老自然要做出表率，不能勉强对方。¤However, there is such a thing. But the Star Palace has always been averse to forming a Daoist couple for the sake of dual cultivation. As an elder of the Star Palace, I naturally have to set a good example and cannot force the other party.
道友只不过是说了实情，我当然不会介意。¤Fellow daoist, you've just spoken the truth, I certainly won't mind.
哼，厉道友知道的不少嘛。但你说是来祝贺，却一再出言辱我，是何用意？¤Hmph, Fellow Daoist Li knows quite a bit. But if you're here to offer congratulations, why do you keep insulting me? What's your purpose?
这...道友说的倒也不无道理，若不是门派提供的功法与资源，我也的确是难以走到如今这...¤Fellow daoist, what you have said is not without reason. If it weren't for the techniques and resources provided by the sect, I would indeed find it difficult to reach this level now.
同喜同喜。不知道友师承何派？怎么称呼？¤Congratulations, congratulations. May I ask which sect you belong to, fellow daoist? And how should I address you?
哈哈哈，冲虚道友可不是侥幸。早就听说星宫秘术天下无双，道友又是星宫大长老弟子，想必是突破之时受益匪浅吧。¤Hahaha, Fellow Daoist Chong Xu is not lucky. I have long heard that the secret arts of Star Palace are unparalleled in the world, and since you are a disciple of the Star Palace Grand Elder, you must have benefited greatly during your breakthrough.
{size=34}呵，真是废物。{/size}¤{size=34}Heh, truly a waste.{/size}
这倒是提醒了我，冲虚道友完成化婴可能还真没依赖星宫。¤This reminds me that Fellow Daoist Chun Xu might not have relied on Star Palace to complete Nascent Transformation after all.
只是我听说，与林府的联姻之所以未成，是因为某人贿赂林府栖云长老一事败露，后由林家家主出面这才让联姻终止，也不知是真是假。¤I have heard that the reason why the marriage alliance between the Lin House and another family did not work out was because someone was caught bribing Elder Qiyun of the Lin House. Later, it was the Lin Family Patriarch who stepped forward and ended the alliance. I don't know if this is true or false.
不过是侥幸而已。宁州修仙之人不下千百，我冲虚也只是其中普通的一员，若不是运气较好，又怎有幸走到成功化婴的这一天呢。¤It was just a stroke of luck. There are at least thousands of cultivators in Ningzhou. I, Chongxu, am just an ordinary member among them. If it weren't for my good fortune, how could I have the chance to successfully undergo the nascent transformation today?
哈哈哈，冲虚道友误会了，我无意出言侮辱，只是真心觉得道友用尽手段修成元婴，结果实力还如此不济...¤Hahaha, Fellow Daoist Chongxu misunderstood me. I didn't mean to insult you, I just genuinely feel that despite all the effort you put into cultivating your Nascent Soul, your strength still falls short...
{vpunch=10,0.5}短短几十年，你！怎么可能！¤In just a few short decades, how could you possibly... {vpunch=10,0.5}
你嘴上虽还在调侃着冲虚散人，手上也是驱动神通与他战至一处。¤While still teasing Hermit Chong Xu with your words, you also utilize your divine skill to fight against him in the same location.
冲虚散人被你打断话语也是一愣，旋即恢复神态。除脸上挂着的微笑有些显假以外，倒也没太多表情变化。¤The hermit Chong Xu was momentarily stunned when you interrupted his words, but quickly recovered his composure. Other than a slightly forced smile on his face, there wasn't much change in his expression.
{vpunch=10,0.5}别想唬我！受死吧！！¤{vpunch=10,0.5} Don't try to fool me! Prepare to die!!
我道是谁会来祝贺，没成想是你这小王八蛋。¤Who do I think would come to congratulate me? Didn't think it would be you, you little bastard.
我道是谁来拜访，没想到竟是你这小王八蛋。好啊好啊，我刚突破便是送来一份大礼，哼哈哈哈！¤I wondered who was visiting me, but I never thought it would be you, you little bastard. Fine, fine, just as I made a breakthrough, I am sending a grand gift your way. Hmphahaha!
等突破到化神，要渡劫的那天，就吃掉主人留给我的那颗化劫丹，到上面去找他。¤When you break through to deity transformation and need to undergo tribulation, eat the tribulation pill left by the master and go up to find him.
渡劫本就是逆天而行，任何阴差阳错都可能导致失败。¤Crossing the tribulation is already going against the heavens, any mishap could lead to failure.
何人擅闯我主人洞府？¤Who dares to trespass into my master's cave?
我帮你打开这大阵，你便出去找你的主人吧，他现在正需要你的帮助。¤I will help you open this large formation. You can go find your master, as he currently needs your help.
你便是鹤真人所说的那只白狐吧，鹤真人他……¤You must be the white fox that He Zhenren talked about. He Zhenren...
只见那白狐身上的毛瞬间绷直，露出尖牙，下一秒便向你扑了过来。¤I saw the white fox's fur tense up in an instant, revealing its sharp teeth, and the next second it pounced towards you.
这洞府本来是主人留下来保护我用的。¤This cave was originally left by the owner to protect me.
只要拿着主人的系命玉佩，不管多远都能找到主人，可是现在……¤As long as one holds the master's Life-Ordering Jade Pendant, they can find the master no matter how far away they are. But now...
它抖了抖身子，跑到了出口面前，又回头看了你一眼。¤It shook its body and ran to the exit, then turned its head to glance at you.
你若相信你主人，只要他未身死道消，便迟早会有东山再起的一天。¤If you believe in your master, as long as he is not dead, he will eventually rise again.
“我能做的便只有这些了。先看看鹤真人都留下了些什么东西吧。”¤I can only do so much. Let's first see what Senior He has left behind.
何人擅闯我主人洞府？我主人给我的系命玉佩为何突然碎了？¤Who dares to trespass into my master's cave? Why did my master's life jade pendant suddenly shatter?
眼见你不像是在说谎的样子，白狐耷拉下脑袋，瘫软在了地上，时不时还会传来低沉的“呜——”的声音。¤Seeing that you don't seem to be lying, the White Fox drooped her head and collapsed onto the ground, occasionally making a low woo... sound.
你将事情经过一五一十地告诉了它。它先是惊慌失措了一阵，随后悲恸到好似流下了泪水，最后却又升起了滔天怒火。¤You told it the whole story in great detail. At first, it panicked and then became very sad, as if it were shedding tears. Finally, it erupted in a heavenly fury.
去死。¤Go die.
你刚进入鹤真人的洞府，便看见他所说的那只白狐，正极为警惕地盯着你。¤Upon entering He Zhenren's cave, you see the white fox he mentioned staring at you with utmost alertness.
说完，它便头也不回地跑出去了。¤After speaking, it ran out without looking back.
你主人便是那个自称鹤真人的家伙？¤Is your master the one who calls himself the Crane Expert?
“原来那道光是与这玉佩联系的一道神魂…”¤So, that light is actually a soul that is connected to this jade pendant...
言罢，你便将阵法打开了一个口子。¤After speaking, you opened up an array formation.
“主人需要我…”¤The master needs me...
他说，以我这点修为，要是在外面乱晃，一定很危险，就让我专心呆在这里修炼，¤He said that with my level of cultivation, it would be very dangerous for me to wander around outside, so he told me to stay focused and cultivate here.
姑娘，现在伤感也是无用，倒不如想想如何帮主人渡过此劫难。¤Girl, it's useless to be sad now. We better think about how to help the master overcome this difficulty.
听到这里，白狐顿时站起身来，眼睛里又重新泛起了光。¤Upon hearing this, the White Fox immediately stood up, her eyes once again glowing.
骗子，就连吞云大圣都不是主人的对手，渡劫怎么可能会失败？¤Fraudster, even the Cloud Swallowing Saint is not a match for the master, how could the Tribulation possibly fail?
如今他滥杀无辜，已经被我诛杀了…你最好忘了他。¤Now that he has indiscriminately killed, I have already killed him... You better forget about him.
你谨慎的在此地址值守，前方一名门内弟子向你走来，你们互相点头示意。¤You are carefully on guard at this address, when a disciple from the sect approaches you and nods in greeting.
你谨慎的在此地址值守，似乎有一道隐晦的气息在旁潜伏。¤You are cautious in standing guard at this address, as if there is a hidden aura lurking nearby.
你谨慎的在此地值守，前方一道黑影向你扑来。\n¤You stand guard here cautiously, as a dark figure rushes towards you.
杀了他...救出我的师傅和我玄古门的师兄弟们。¤Kill him...and save my master and my senior brothers from the Profound Ancient Sect.
你若是不允，我就只能希望他得偿所愿之后能信守诺言了。¤If you don't agree, then I can only hope that he will keep his promise after achieving his wish.
精炼麒麟血啊，从豹麟兽精血中获得麒麟血，但那护法在此法上推陈出新进一步精炼可让品阶再上一层。¤Refined Qilin blood, gained from refining the blood essence of the leopard lin beast. However, by innovating on this technique, the protector can further refine it to advance the classes by one level.
现在这时候还关心麒麟血？¤Do you still care about the blood of the Qilin at this time?
咳，误信了小人啊。¤Oops, I've mistakenly believed in a villain.
{LastName}又是我在这里等你帮我，呵呵，安心最后一次麻烦你了。¤{LastName}, once again I'm here waiting for you to help me. Hehe, this will be the last time I trouble you, so rest assured.
你在做什么？¤What are you doing?
你若是答应，我全部身家双手奉上，并用麒麟血为你铭刻灵纹。¤If you agree, I will offer all my wealth and engrave a spirit mark for you using the blood of a Qilin.
不做不行啊，我深种魔神蛊，现在已经受他所制，不得不继续啊。¤I have no choice but to continue, as I am deeply infected with the devil god gu and have already fallen under its control.
咳咳，{LastName}你终于来了。¤Ahem, {LastName}, you finally arrived.
魔神蛊？？！！你被古神教暗算了？¤Devil God Gu?! You've been ambushed by the Ancient God Sect?!
我怎么帮你？¤How can I help you?
有很多问题吧？我们长话短说。¤There are many questions, right? Let's make a long story short.
我们都曾以为那位大护法是我玄古门中兴之人，但是看错了。¤We all thought that the Grand Protector was the one who would revive our Profound Ancient Sect, but we were mistaken.
盯眼看去台上坐着一个玄古门修士，正在此地维持着阵法的运转，但要看去正是你寻找的友人。¤As you eye the stage, you spot a cultivator of the Profound Ancient Sect seated there currently maintaining an array. However, upon closer look, it is indeed your friend whom you seek.
你们玄古门的人呢？¤Where are the people from your profound ancient sect?
他承诺我帮他搞定这精血他就放了我师傅。¤He promised me that he would release my master if I helped him obtain this essence blood.
萧儿的天赋心性实属上佳，我派这数百年间也找不到能比得上他的。¤Xiao Er's talent and temperament are truly excellent. For the past several hundred years, I haven't found anyone who can match him.
修炼一途乃是逆天而为，若是心性不够坚定，便是天资再好，也不会有什么作为的。¤Cultivating the path is going against the natural order. Even if one has exceptional talent, without a strong will, they will not achieve anything.
传统功夫以点到为止。¤Traditional martial arts stop at pointing.
被困之时，从他们的只言片语中倒是听到了些消息。¤During the time of being trapped, I only heard bits and pieces of information from their words.
多谢道友提醒。¤Thank you, fellow daoist, for reminding me.
几道魂体从阵中逃逸而出。见状，你向着其中一个魂体飞了过去。¤Several soul bodies escaped from the formation. Upon seeing this, you flew towards one of the soul bodies.
刚刚他们说还有两座阵法，你不如多去附近的小岛上看看，可能会有意外的收获。¤Just now they said there were two arrays left. Why don't you go check out the nearby small islands? There may be unexpected gains.
无妨。道友暂时还是远离此地为好，莫又被他们抓了去。¤No worries. Fellow Daoist should stay away from this place for the time being, lest they be taken by them.
将我等抓去，是想给大长老炼制{color=#d0380a}万魂幡{/color}。¤Taking us captive is to refine the {color=#d0380a}Ten Thousand Soul Banner{/color} for the Grand Elder.
被赶出来？魂体之间难道不是互惠互利的关系？¤Was he kicked out? Don't soul bodies have a mutually beneficial relationship with each other?
我不知道那些外围的灵魂体在打什么算盘，反正老夫是受不了这个气。¤I don't know what those peripheral soul bodies are planning, anyway I can't stand this anger.
你站在原地，待灵魂体们都飞远后，方才开口。¤You stood still and waited until all the soul bodies had flown away before speaking.
只有上缴过神阴石的魂体才有资格在阴气旋旁修炼，可若不能修炼，呆在那岛上又有何用？¤Only soul bodies that have submitted shenyin stones are eligible to cultivate beside the Yin Cyclone. But if they cannot cultivate, what use is it to stay on that island?
原来如此…那你们在被困期间，可有何发现？¤So that's how it is... During your time trapped, did you find anything?
可岛上魂体众多，难道每一位都给岛主上缴了神阴石？¤There are many soul bodies on the island. Does that mean every one of them has given the Shenyin Stone to the island master?
老头，你没事吧？¤Old man, are you okay?
事实上，任何魂体若不能给岛主带去神阴石，久而久之都只会被排挤在外。¤In fact, any soul body that cannot bring shenyin stones to the island lord will eventually be ostracized.
这个我等也没见过。便不清楚了。¤I have not seen this before, so I'm not sure.
并不是。¤Not really.
说来惭愧。道友对我等有救命之恩，我等却只能为道友提供些消息…¤I am ashamed to say that while my fellow daoist has saved my life, all I can offer in return is some information...
此前我对这玄冥海也是一无所知...若非如此，我等断不会来此。¤Before this, I knew nothing about the Deep Black Sea... if not for that, we would never have come here.
这万魂幡又是何物？¤What is this ten thousand soul banner?
“此阵竟也藏有神阴石…先收下吧。”¤This formation unexpectedly conceals a shenyin stone... Let's collect it first.
多谢道友搭救，只是我等都是因未能上缴神阴石被赶出阴魂岛，所以不得不出来另寻修炼之所的。¤Thank you fellow daoist for rescuing us. We were all expelled from Ghost Island because we failed to hand over the shenyin stone, so we had to find another place to cultivate.
这只是岛主对外人的说辞罢了。¤This is just the island owner's rhetoric towards outsiders.
随着你最后的致命一击，两名邪修应声倒地，拘魂阵也消散于无形。¤As you delivered the final lethal blow, two demonic cultivators collapsed to the ground, and the soul detaining formation dissipated into nothingness.
他们自称{color=#d0380a}万魂殿{/color}修士，同样的阵法，玄冥海中应该还有{color=#d0380a}两{/color}座。¤They call themselves cultivators of the {color=#d0380a}Ten Thousand Souls Temple{/color}, and there are also {color=#d0380a}two{/color} arrays of the same kind in the deep black sea.
我没事…只是这阵法当真诡异，我仅透出这么点气息竟然都被发现了，还真是小觑不得。¤I'm fine... It's just that this array is really mysterious. I only released a little bit of aura and it was still detected. I shouldn't have underestimated it.
我正在调查玄冥海的这些邪修，道友对于这片海域可有什么情报可以分享？¤I am currently investigating these demonic cultivators in the Deep Black Sea. Fellow daoist, do you have any information to share about this sea region?
你这魔神蛊已经发作了，先稳定伤势我们再做其他。¤Your devil god poison has already erupted, let's stabilize the injuries first before we do anything else.
唉，先出去吧。¤Ah, let's go out first.
说完，魔神蛊的反噬爆发，轩岚诺已经失去了气息。¤After speaking, the backlash of the Devil God's Gu erupted, and Xuan Lannuo had already lost his breath.
来吧，看这是我们数十年的努力，看看我们最后的作品是什么样。¤Come, see what our decades of effort have brought us, see what our final work looks like.
阁主不在，就由老夫会会你。¤If the sect leader is not present, then let this old man handle you.
嗯？还有？？¤Ah? Is there more??
好险…¤Phew, that was close...
唉…还是先看看这里有什么东西吧。¤Ah... let's take a look and see if there's anything here first.
{vpunch=10,0.5}言罢，白狐体内传出一股巨大的能量，随即爆炸开来。¤{vpunch=10,0.5}With a final word, a massive surge of energy emanated from within the White Fox's body before exploding outward.
收手吧，你并不是我的对手。¤Stop it, you're not my match.
你…我跟你拼了。¤I'm getting into it with you.
这白狐倒是忠心，只可惜…¤This white fox is indeed loyal, but unfortunately...
那白狐拖着遍体鳞伤的身躯，依然没有停下的意思。¤The white fox continued to drag its heavily wounded body without any intention of stopping.
然而一看到你出现，那些弟子立马作鸟兽散，一时间半个人影都寻不见了。¤However, as soon as they saw you appear, those disciples scattered like birds and beasts. For a moment, not a trace of a person could be found.
不过几息时间，一道散发着阴邪气息的身影出现在你的视野中，想来便是禾山道的大首领了。¤In just a few moments, a figure emitting a demonic aura appeared in your sight. I presume it's the leader of the Mt. Harvest Sect.
就是你这黄毛{xiaozi}在此地撒野？有趣，有趣，本座甚久未见如此不知天高地厚之人了！¤So, it's you, this yellow-haired brat, that's causing trouble here? Interesting, interesting, this one hasn't seen such an ignorant person in a long time!
大胆小儿！我倒要看看你有没有这个本事！¤Bold child! I want to see if you have the ability!
你禾山道在宁州作威作福，欺害无辜，如今是该付出代价了！¤Your Mt. Harvest Sect has been acting recklessly in Ningzhou, mistreating the innocent. Now it's time to pay the price!
你一踏入幽谷，便见到一排禾山道弟子聚集在入口处，像是要阻拦什么一样齐齐展开灵力屏障，景象煞是壮观。¤As soon as you stepped into the valley, you could see a group of Mt. Harvest Sect disciples gathered at the entrance. They had erected a powerful spiritual shield, as if they were trying to stop something. The scene was truly magnificent.
据说雷鸣海终日被雷云笼罩，稍有不慎便会遭到雷击，是无尽之海中最危险的海域之一。¤It is said that the Thunder Sea is shrouded in thunderclouds all day long, and the slightest mistake could lead to a lightning strike. It is one of the most dangerous seas in the Endless Sea.
突然此地的禁制激活了。¤Suddenly, the restrictions here were activated.
唉，我们就点人手，偌大个沃焦山，再加之咱们行事又要避开离火门的人。这都多久了，再拖下去离火门的人也是不吃素的啊。¤Ah, we only have a handful of people, and the vast Inferno Mountain. Plus, we have to avoid the people of Fire Gate Sect. It's been so long already, if we drag this on, the people of Fire Gate Sect won't just sit idly by.
（取出传音符）嗯？哼哼，畜生就是畜生。¤(Taking out the sound talisman) Hmm? Hmph, beasts are just beasts.
不过，你说的有道理多日探查尚无结果，这么下....¤However, what you said makes sense. Despite several days of investigation, there hasn't been any results yet, so...
总坛也真是的，连只畜生都看不住。¤The main hall is really something, even a mere beast cannot be contained.
嗯。我们撤。¤Hmm. Let's withdraw.
好了好了，明白了。¤Okay okay, I understand.
来者对于沃焦山甚是熟悉，一边避开了驻守弟子，一边熟练的穿梭于山林之间。跟着两人出了沃焦山，窜入山脚的一个洞窟。¤The newcomer was very familiar with the Inferno Mountain and skillfully avoided the guards while moving through the forests. Following the two, they exited the Inferno Mountain and entered a cave at the base of the mountain.
你动静小一点，别惊动了其他人。¤Be more quiet so as not to startle anyone else.
好了，先把事情办好吧，最近护法心情不好若是办事不利有咱俩好受的。¤Alright, let's finish the task first. The guardian's mood has not been good lately, and we won't have an easy time if things don't go well.
道友，此地风水不错是个长眠的好地方。¤Fellow Daoist, this place has good Feng Shui and is a good place for eternal rest.
怎么，到手了？¤What, did you get it?
言罢，他们便头也不回的离开了。¤After saying this, they left without looking back.
前辈愿除此妖，实乃我等之幸。¤Senior wishes to eliminate this demon, which is truly fortunate for us.
既然这幽厄如此危险，你为何还要来此寻找神阴石？¤Since this apotropaic magic is so dangerous, why would you still come here to search for the shenyin stone?
无妨，本座再自行寻找一番罢。¤It doesn't matter, I'll search on my own.
本座前来剿灭幽厄，你可知它现在何方？¤I've come to eliminate the apotropaic magic. Do you know where it is now?
此獠神出鬼没，除非是亲眼见它吞噬魂体，否则你几乎不可能发现它。¤This savage god is elusive and almost impossible to discover unless you witness it devouring a soul body firsthand.
不远处一些魂体匆匆飞过。你飞上前去，打算问出点关于幽厄的消息。¤Some soul bodies hurriedly flew by not far away. You flew over to them, intending to ask for some information about apotropaic magic.
等等，你当真要对付幽厄？¤Wait, are you really going to deal with apotropaic magic?
高空中，一个相当凝实的魂体快速飞过。你飞上前去，打算问出点关于幽厄的消息。¤In the high altitude, a solid soul body quickly flew by. You flew forward, intending to inquire about some information regarding apotropaic magic.
他神情略微复杂的看着你。¤He looked at you with a slightly complex expression.
不敢，前辈愿为我等除害，应该是在下谢过前辈才是。¤I dare not. Senior is willing to eliminate harm for us, so I should thank senior first.
我在如此高空飞行，本就是为了躲避此妖，又怎会见过？¤I am flying at such a high altitude to avoid this demon, how could I have seen it?
在下在如此高空飞行，本就是为了躲避此妖，自然是没有见过。¤I have been flying at such a high altitude in order to avoid this demon, so naturally I have not seen it.
原来如此，那便谢过道友了。¤So that's how it is, then I'll thank my fellow daoist.
若我们见过幽厄，便见不到你了。¤If we encounter apotropaic magic, we will no longer be able to see you.
原来如此，多谢道友。¤I see, thank you fellow daoist.
高空中，一个相当凝实的魂体快速飞过。你飞上前去，询问关于幽厄的消息。¤In the high altitude, a solid soul body flew past quickly. You flew up to inquire about news concerning apotropaic magic.
他们原本阴沉着脸，在感应到你化神的威压之后，变得恭敬起来。¤They had originally gloomy faces, but after sensing the deity transformation's might suppression, they became respectful.
既然他们没有遇到，说明不在这附近，再换个地方问问吧。¤Since they haven't met, it means they're not nearby. Let's ask in another place.
我一直在这岛上寻找神阴石，自然是没见过。¤I have been searching for the shenyin stone on this island all along, but of course I have not seen it.
与其就这样苟活在这极阴之地，倒不如冒点风险，日子还能多点盼头。¤Rather than just surviving in this extremely gloomy land, it's better to take some risks and have some hope for the future.
在下一直在这岛上寻找神阴石，自然是没见过幽厄。¤I have been searching for the Shenyin Stone on this island, so naturally I haven't seen any apotropaic magic.
一名魂体在不远处好似在搜寻什么东西。你飞上前去，打算问出点关于幽厄的消息。¤A soul body in the nearby area seems to be searching for something. You fly over to inquire about any news regarding apotropaic magic.
本座前来剿灭幽厄，诸位可知它现在何方？¤I have come to eradicate the apotropaic magic. Do any of you know where it is currently located?
他感应到你的威压之后，停下了手头的事情。¤After sensing your might suppression, he stopped what he was doing.
不收集足够的神阴石，便会失去在阴魂岛上修炼的资格，更不用说换取那复生秘术了。¤Without collecting enough shenyin stones, one will lose the opportunity to cultivate on Ghost Island, let alone exchange for the secret arts of resurrection.
一名魂体在不远处好似在搜寻什么东西。你飞上前去，询问关于幽厄的消息。¤A soul body was searching for something not too far away. You flew towards it and asked for information about apotropaic magic.
在下受岛主之托前来剿灭幽厄，道友可知它现在何方？¤I have come under the request of the island master to exterminate the apotropaic magic. Fellow daoist, do you know its current whereabouts?
只是此獠神出鬼没，除非是亲眼见它吞噬魂体，否则前辈可能很难发现它。¤However, this Lao Shen is elusive. Unless a senior sees it devouring soul bodies with their own eyes, it may be difficult to detect.
在下受岛主之托前来剿灭幽厄，诸位可知它现在何方？¤I have come here under the request of the island master to eliminate the apotropaic magic. Do any of you know its current whereabouts?
他们大都阴沉着脸，一副不太想搭理你的样子，只有领头一人回应你。¤Most of them had gloomy faces and didn't seem to want to talk to you, except for the leader who responded.
不远处一些魂体匆匆飞过。你飞上前去，询问关于幽厄的消息。¤Some soul bodies hurriedly flew past not far away. You flew forward and asked about the news of apotropaic magic.
只可惜我等并未见到幽厄，否则也见不到前辈了。¤Unfortunately, we didn't get to see any apotropaic magic, otherwise we wouldn't have missed our senior.
一瞬间四双眼睛直勾勾地朝你看来，凌厉的眼光似是要把你生吞活剥了般凶狠。¤In an instant, four pairs of eyes stared straight at you, their sharp gaze seemingly intending to devour you alive with their ferocity.
有了！千年前有邪修擅研阵道，所施阵术皆邪祟诡秘，这阵法看来与那邪修所用有些相通之处。¤Got it! A millennium ago, there was an evil cultivator who excelled at studying array dao. All the arrays he cast were sinister and mysterious. This array seems to have some similarities with those used by that evil cultivator.
大概是那阵法被你破解的原因，第一次来到圣坛时所见的冗长台阶已经消失不见，取而代之的是盘旋交错的几圈阶梯，想必当时连家管事便是在此迷阵中带你绕来绕去。¤Perhaps it was due to your deciphering of the array that the long steps seen on the first visit to the sacred altar have disappeared, replaced by a series of circling and intertwining stairs. The steward of the Lian family must have led you through this maze at that time.
这阵法倒是有些熟悉，待老夫细细想来...¤This array seems quite familiar, let me think about it carefully...
也不知这元神和他们结了什么仇...该不会是像我一样知晓千流岛秘密之人吧？¤I don't know what grudge this yuan god has against them… Could it be that they, like me, know the secret of Myriad Rivers Island?
这阵法...他们似乎在对付那个元神，趁他们还没做好撤阵的准备解决了他们！¤This array... they seem to be dealing with that yuan god, taking advantage of their lack of readiness to withdraw the array and resolve the situation!
老头儿，这阵法可有破解的方法？直接把那骨钉拔掉就没问题了？¤Old man, is there a way to break this array? Can we just remove that bone spike and solve the problem?
你解决他们后后来到石坛前，仔细端详着上面的阵法。刺骨的寒意向你袭来，霎时间令你感觉元神仿佛都要被这阵寒意冻住。¤After taking care of them, you arrived at the stone altar and carefully examined the array on top of it. The bone-chilling coldness came upon you, making you feel like your yuan god was about to freeze.
看上去他们正在举行某种仪式，你的突然出现显然打扰了仪式的进行。¤It looks like they are holding some kind of ceremony, and your sudden appearance obviously disrupted the progress of the ceremony.
我乃无心闯入此地的修士，倒是您为何被困于此？¤I am a cultivator who accidentally stumbled into this place. What about you? Why are you trapped here?
他秘术已修练完成，如今也不再需要我的元神，便打算叫几个心腹将本座炼化。¤His secret arts have been fully practiced and he no longer needs my Yuan God. He plans to let a few trusted subordinates refine me.
法阵中央的元神虚弱地闪动着，你一时不知道怎么解决，只好向剑中的魏无极求助。¤The yuan god at the center of the array was flickering weakly, and you didn't know how to solve it for a while, so you had to ask for help from Wei Wuji in the sword.
圣坛依旧灵气充盈，只不过你似乎闯入的时机不对，石坛周围端坐着几位连家修士，他们正中围起来的祭台上八颗骨钉整齐地按八卦的方位排开，一抹惨淡森白的元神在中央摇曳着。¤The sacred altar is still abundant with fulfilling spiritual energy, but it seems you have arrived at the wrong time. Several Lian family cultivators are sitting around the stone altar, with eight bone spikes arranged in the position of the eight trigrams on the altar in the center. A faint and eerie yuan god is swaying in the middle.
正是，想来你将阵法破除后这虚弱的元神才有能力与你沟通。¤It is so. Only after you break the array will this weakened yuan god have the ability to communicate with you.
你心头一震，先前你明明是受连盛平指引来此地修练秘术才被坑害，他的元神又怎会在此处被困百千年？¤Your heart trembled, you clearly came to this place to practice secret arts under the guidance of Lian Shengping and were betrayed, how could his yuan god be trapped here for thousands of years?
你手脚利落地把八颗骨钉拆除，中央的元神肉眼可见地凝实了几分，可谓成效卓越。¤You skillfully remove the eight bone spikes, and the central yuan god visibly solidifies to some extent, demonstrating outstanding effectiveness.
你飞快地跳下石阶来到圣坛的门前，轻车熟路地进入了门内。¤You swiftly jumped down the stone steps and arrived at the sacred altar's entrance, entering it with practiced ease.
你飞身而起，径直向那四人攻去。由于阵法的限制，那几位修士束手束脚，和你走了几招便败于马下。¤You flew up and attacked the four people head-on. Due to the array's restrictions, the cultivators were bound and unable to fight back, and they were defeated by you after a few moves.
不知小友何人...？¤Do you know, young friend, who you are?
元神的声音听起来苍老又无力，似是年迈修士所持有。¤The voice of the yuan god sounded old and weak, as if it belonged to a senior cultivator.
其上布置的骨钉是为锁住元神，令其不得逃脱。阵法所绘咒纹...哼，饶你修为再强，元神置入此阵犹如烈火油烹，端是狠辣无边！¤The bone spikes arranged on it are meant to lock the yuan god in place, preventing it from escaping. The inscriptions drawn on the formation... hmph, even if your cultivation is strong, placing your yuan god in this formation is like frying it in hot oil, ruthlessly and mercilessly!
若我助前辈夺回身体，前辈能否保证日后的千流岛不会对供奉施此毒术？¤If I help Senior reclaim their body, can Senior promise that Myriad Rivers Island will not use this poisonous technique on Guest Elders in the future?
正交谈时魔修假冒的岛主从一旁冲出，向你袭来。想必是他已感知阵法被毁，前来探查消息。¤During the conversation, a demon cultivator posing as the island owner suddenly rushed towards you. He must have sensed that the array had been destroyed and came to investigate.
得了岛主的承诺，你将体内灵气平缓地输给岛主的元神，只见那摇曳的灵体又结实了些。¤Having received the promise of the island lord, you smoothly transfer the spiritual energy in your body to the island lord's yuan god. You only see that their flickering spiritual body has become more substantial.
嗯~还不错嘛，你{xiaozi}有前途。¤Hmm~ Not bad, {xiaozi}, you have potential.
（一脸无奈）师尊，这位就是{FirstName}{LastName}{FirstName}{shidi}，在您外出的时候可是帮了不少忙呢。¤(Sighing) Master, this is {FirstName}{LastName}{FirstName}{shidi}, who helped us a lot while you were away.
据传乃是上古妖圣的传承，经历九次涅槃，不仅能恢复暗伤易经伐髓调整资质，也可以修为更进一层。¤It is said to be the inheritance of ancient demon saints. After experiencing nine nirvanas, not only can it recover from hidden injuries, adjust aptitude and cultivate to a higher level.
师尊~¤Master~
多谢前辈出手相救。¤Thank you, senior, for helping me out.
不过温养这涅槃凰火甚是耗费资源，即使以离火门地脉之力尚且不足，还需要5品以上的木系妖丹和梧桐木作为燃料。¤However, nurturing the Nirvana Phoenix Heavenly Fire consumes a lot of resources. Even with the power of the Fire Gate Sect's Geological Vein, it still requires wood-type demon cores of Rank 5 or higher and parasol wood as fuel.
得魔焰真君传授习得《九转涅槃诀》，之后更是获得异火涅槃凰火以此布下凤火涅槃阵，施展凤凰涅槃用以疗伤。¤After receiving instruction from the Demon Flame True Lord, X was able to learn the 《Nirvana Mantra of Nine Turns》. Later on, X also gained the Different Fire Nirvana Phoenix Flame and used it to set up the Phoenix Flame Nirvana Formation to heal injuries.
我考虑了一下，还是不告诉你了，毕竟是主人的秘密。¤I considered it and decided not to tell you, after all it's the master's secret.
哼，你{xiaozi}勇气可嘉，这神识修为可就不咋地了。¤Hmph, {xiaozi}, your courage is commendable, but your cultivation of soul sense is lacking.
{FirstName}{shidi}，失陪了。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, excuse me for not accompanying you.
凤凰涅槃乃是兵解重生之道，本就是向死而生、一个漫长而危险的过程，《涅槃诀》也是以此由师尊所创。¤The Phoenix Nirvana is the path to rebirth through the dissolution of armor. It is a long and perilous journey that involves facing death. 《Nirvana Mantra》 was created by Master based on this path.
嘎嘎嘎，天蟾子怎么有人和你一样笨啊。¤Gagaga, why is there someone as dumb as you, Heavenly Toad?
“外出”两字要得格外的重。¤The term 'going out' carries a particularly heavy weight.
刚一进门，一阵威压笼罩了你。抬头看去，麒麟正盯着你。¤As soon as you entered, a wave of might suppression enveloped you. Looking up, you see the Qilin staring at you.
呶，拿着！我可是赏罚分明的。¤Hey, take it! I am clear in my rewards and punishments.
你感到眼前的麒麟一阵气血翻涌。¤You feel a surge of lifeforce in front of your eyes as the kirin appears.
嘿嘿，{xiaoz}你不好奇么？叫声炎鹤大人，我可以勉为其难的考虑告诉你发生了什么？¤Hey {xiaoz}, aren't you curious? If you call me Fliery Crane, then I might reluctantly consider telling you what happened.
主人，您的伤？¤Master, what about your injury?
那敢问炎鹤大人，麟尊这是？¤I dare not ask, Lord Fliery Crane, what is this Divine Unicorn?
师徒两人开启禁制直奔地下，现在现场就留着你和两只灵兽六目相对。¤Master and disciple activate the prohibition and head straight underground. Now you and two spirit beasts are facing each other with six eyes.
{FirstName}{shidi}真的是抱歉了，情况突发。¤{FirstName} {shidi}, I'm really sorry, the situation suddenly changed.
唉，您和火凰前辈也真是....¤Ah, you and Senior Fire Phoenix are really...
哈哈哈，{xiaozi}我们见过哦。不过那时候，你可太狼狈了，一个古神教的小耗子就把你逼入绝境了。¤Hahaha, {xiaozi} we've met before. But at that time, you were really in a sorry state, as a little mouse from the Ancient God Sect had pushed you to your limits.
你感到元神仿佛置于重重烈火中炙烤一般。忽然压力一松。¤You feel as if your Yuan God is being roasted in intense flames. Suddenly, the pressure eases up.
{shidi}若是有多余的，我绝焰堂必有重谢。¤If there is anything extra, I, the Jueyan Hall, will definitely repay you generously, {shidi}.
钟师兄客气了。¤Senior Brother Zhong, you're being too polite.
师傅曾被古神教伏击，幸而被魔焰真君所救，只是对方所用秘术甚是诡异，竟伤及本源。¤My master was once ambushed by the Ancient God Sect, but luckily saved by the True Lord of Devil Flames. However, the secret arts used by the enemy were extremely strange and even injured his origin.
我来开启凤火涅槃阵，炎鹤，天蟾子你们就镇守密库大门。¤I will now activate the Phoenix Fire Nirvana Array. Fliery Crane and Heavenly Toad, you both will guard the entrance to the secret storage room. Please secure the Damen.
探头看去，入口处有一块巨石，上书“焚天”二字。即使是岁月的流逝令其上灵气已经几近溃散，但你仍能感受到一阵灼热的火之道韵。¤Looking forward, there is a giant rock at the entrance, with the characters burning heaven written on it. Even though the passing of time has almost dissipated its spiritual energy, you can still feel a surge of fiery dao resonance.
这洞府看起来年代很久了，连最基础的聚灵阵都有些维持不住了。¤This cave seems to be very old, even the most basic gathering spirit array can no longer be maintained.
这一缕道韵必是在火之道上已是大道已成的强者留下的。¤This strand of dao rhyme must have been left behind by a strong cultivator who has already achieved the path of fire dao.
你眼前是一根细柱，一条金龙盘旋刻于其上，时不时有雷霆涌过。¤Before you stands a thin pillar, with a golden dragon coiled and engraved on it, occasionally exuding bursts of thunder.
这应该就是传闻之中九霄雷狱阵的阵眼引雷柱了吧，有机会可以交换给龙族。¤This should be the lightning pillar that's the eye of the Eternal Lightning Prison Formation rumored to be the Thunder Prison Array of the Nine Heavens. If the chance arises, it can be exchanged with the Dragon Clan.
你花费了一些时日，在附近布下了数个相互连锁的阵法，现在就等鱼儿上钩了...¤You spent some time setting up several interconnected arrays in the area, now you just need to wait for the fish to take the bait...
你连忙向那边赶去，刚好撞见正准备逃离此地的邪修。你遁速轻灵，很快便追上了他。¤You quickly rushed towards that direction and happened to bump into the demonic cultivator who was about to escape from this place. With your speed and light spirit, you swiftly caught up with him.
你找了个隐蔽之处藏身，阵法笼罩下，所有人的一举一动皆在你的掌控之中。¤You have found a concealed hiding place and are shrouded in an array, with every move and action of others under your control.
哪里跑！¤Where are you running!
整整过了一个月，也没有发生任何异动，反倒是你布下的阵法中有好几个不知何时已经被人破坏。¤An entire month has passed without any unusual occurrences. Instead, several of the arrays you set up have been destroyed by unknown individuals at some point.
一道灵气波动从背后传来，你早就防备，闪身避开。¤A surge of spiritual energy fluctuation came from behind, but you were already prepared and dodged.
没过多久，你便发现有一人鬼鬼祟祟地跟着其它散修，正当他想要出手时，你抢先一步向他攻去！¤Not long after, you noticed a person sneakingly following other wandering cultivators. Just as he was about to make his move, you preemptively attacked him!
此人多喜欢对修为低下，且独自出行的散修动手。我只需隐藏自己的修为后四处走动，或许就能引蛇出洞。¤This person enjoys targeting wandering cultivators who have low cultivation levels and travel alone. I just need to hide my own cultivation level and wander around to possibly lure them out.
若是我能实现在附近几个重要的地点布下感应阵法，一旦有人在阵中出手，便可立即感知。只要那人还敢在此地出手，定能将他拿下！¤If I can set up sensing arrays in several important locations nearby, once someone makes a move within the arrays, I can sense it immediately. As long as that person dares to make a move here, I will be able to capture them!
整整过了一个月，也没有发生任何异动，或许是你在不经意间已经惊动了那人，自己却完全没有发现。¤A full month has passed without any abnormal activity. Perhaps you have already alarmed that person unknowingly, but have completely overlooked it.
你每日在附近巡视，这天晚上，一阵轻微的灵气波动引起了你的注意，似乎有什么人正在附近战斗。¤You patrol the area daily, and one evening, a slight spiritual energy fluctuation catches your attention. It seems that someone is fighting nearby.
错过了这次机会后，你始终未能再次找到那名传闻中的邪修，只能悻悻然离开了这里。¤After missing this opportunity, you were never able to find that infamous demonic cultivator from the rumours again. You could only leave here dejectedly.
此人对于阵法造诣犹在你之上，你始终未能找到那名传闻中的邪修，只能悻悻然离开了这里。¤This person is more skilled in array formation than you, and you have never been able to find that rumored evil cultivator. You can only leave here with resentment.
你连忙向那边赶去，刚好撞见正准备逃离此地的邪修。此人不知修炼了何等遁术，速度奇快，几息之间便将你远远甩在身后。¤You quickly rushed over to that direction, and happened to encounter a demonic cultivator who was planning to escape from this place. This person had cultivated some kind of incredibly swift mobility technique, and within a few breaths, had already thrown you far behind them.
你故意压低修为，装作独自在附近搜寻草药的散修，但暗中一直保持警惕...¤You deliberately suppressed your cultivation and acted like a wandering cultivator searching for herbs alone nearby, but secretly remained vigilant.
那杀人夺宝者通常都是在这附近的区域动的手...该怎么找到他呢？¤Those who engage in killing people and taking treasures usually operate in this nearby area...How can we find him?
先四处巡视探查一番吧。若那人还敢在此地出手，被我看到，定能将他拿下！¤Let's have a look around first. If that person dares to make a move here and I catch him, I will definitely bring him down!
整整过了一个月，也没有发生任何异动。你运气不佳，始终未能找到那名传闻中的邪修，只能悻悻然离开了这里。¤A whole month passed without any unusual activity. Your luck was not good, as you were unable to find the infamous demonic cultivator mentioned in the rumours, and could only leave disappointed.
嗖！¤Swoosh!
此人神识修为犹在你之上，你始终未能找到那名传闻中的邪修，只能悻悻然离开了这里。¤This person's soul sense cultivation is still above yours, and you have been unable to find that rumored evil cultivator. You could only leave here feeling disappointed.
你决定留在此地碰碰运气，说不定那人自己便会找上门来。¤You decide to stay here and try your luck, maybe that person will come to you on their own.
很快，你便能飞升上界，觅得长生，与天地同寿，成为真正的仙人！¤Soon, you will be able to ascend to the upper realm, seek eternal life, and live in the same era as heaven and earth, becoming a true immortal!
闭上眼睛，从未如此闲适逍遥，你知道，你将寿敝天地，无有终时，这是自古以来亿万修士的夙愿。¤Closing your eyes, you have never felt so prosperous and carefree. You know that you will live for eternity, with no end in sight. This has been the lifelong dream of countless cultivators throughout history.
你向远处望去，看着人群中一张张你熟悉的，或是陌生的面孔。此时此刻，你只觉得...¤Looking into the distance, you see familiar or unfamiliar faces in the crowd. Right now, you only feel...
是魏无极？他终于重塑了肉身，却又把自己弄成了一副老者的模样...你不禁觉得有些好笑。¤Is it Wei Wuji? He finally reconstructed his physical body, but turned himself into the appearance of an old man... You can't help but find it somewhat funny.
你做到了。¤You did it.
炊烟点点，遁光依旧，灵舟破浪，商旅徐行...一切都已恢复了平静，人们继续忙碌着，草木继续生长着，宁州还是宁州，大海还是大海...¤Amidst scattered cooking smoke and unchanging escape light, the spirit boat broke through the waves, and the merchant's caravan traveled slowly. Everything had recovered its calmness, with people continuing their busy lives, vegetation continuing to grow, Ningzhou remaining as it was, and the sea remaining as vast as ever...
想到这里，你不由得放声大笑起来。¤Thinking of this, you couldn't help but burst into laughter.
此刻，你只觉得内心按捺不住的兴奋，千百年来的苦修、所经所历的一切，都终于有了回报。\n¤At this moment, you feel an uncontrollable excitement within you. All the centuries of hard work and everything you have gone through, finally have a reward.
浮生若梦，过往的点滴回忆好似走马灯一般在你识海中逐个闪过......¤Life is like a dream, and memories of the past flicker in your mind like a revolving lantern.
此刻，你的心情却并不像想象中的那样兴奋与激动，而是莫名的感到孤独。¤At this moment, your mood is not as excited and excited as you imagined, but inexplicably lonely.
此刻，你只觉得豪气冲天。你的名字将会成为新的飞升传说，在此界受万人敬仰，千古传唱！¤At this moment, you feel only heroic spirit. Your name will become a new legend of ascension, admired by countless people in this world and passed down through the ages!
你不再往下看去，而是抬头遥望，望向璀璨的金光，望向九霄之外，你仿佛看到了仙鹤飘飘，耳边似有仙乐阵阵，凤鸣龙吟。¤You stop looking down and instead raise your head to gaze into the dazzling golden light, looking beyond the ninth heaven. You seem to see cranes fluttering and hear heavenly music playing, with the sound of phoenixes singing and dragons roaring.
你愈飞愈高，愈飞愈远，整个宁州、无尽之海几乎都尽收眼底......\n¤As you flew higher and further, your eyes took in the entire Ningzhou and the Endless Sea.
此去一别...或许再也见不到了吧。¤Goodbye for now...perhaps we'll never see each other again.
一位老人笑脸盈盈的对你说道。¤An old man with a smiling face said to you.
劫云渐渐散去，风轻云淡，万道光柱穿破云层，轻轻地洒在地面上。¤The calamity clouds gradually dissipated, the winds were light and the clouds were thin, and countless columns of light pierced through the layers of clouds and gently sprinkled down onto the ground.
仙凡两隔...自此，凡世间的一切，便再也与你无关了。¤Divine and mortal worlds are now separated... from now on, everything in the mortal world will have nothing to do with you anymore.
是啊，我做到了。¤Yes, I did it.
此刻，你的心情却并不像想象中的那样兴奋与激动，而是带着一丝若有若无的哀伤...¤At this moment, your mood is not as excited and passionate as you imagined, but with a hint of sadness that is hard to describe...
此刻，你的心情却并不像想象中的那样兴奋与激动，而是前所未有的平和，仿佛刚刚发生的一切是那么普通。¤At this moment, your mood is not as excited as imagined, but unprecedentedly peaceful, as if everything that just happened is so ordinary.
修行千年，飞升时，却还是孤身一人...¤After cultivating for a thousand years and ascending, yet still alone...
你觉得身体无比轻盈......不，应该说完全感受不到身体的存在一般，被一股至柔的力量牵引着，沐浴着和煦的阳光，慢慢向上飘去......¤You feel your body is incredibly light... no, it's more like you can't feel your body at all. You are being pulled up by a gentle force, basking in the warm sunlight, slowly drifting upwards...
劫云被你完全打散，再也没能聚集起来。¤The robbery cloud was completely dispersed by you, and it could never gather again.
你向远处望去，依稀见到几个陌生的面孔带着敬畏的神情远远的望向这里。此时此刻，你只觉得...¤As you looked into the distance, you could vaguely see a few strangers' faces with awe-filled expressions looking this way. At this moment, you only felt...
云销雨霁，彩彻区明。万道光柱穿破云层，轻轻地洒在了地面上......¤The clouds disperse and the rain clears, revealing a rainbow shining through the clear sky. Countless beams of light pierce through the clouds and gently shower down onto the ground...
前辈，您有什么事？¤Senior, do you need something?
青竹道人乃本门当代掌门，精修宗门天级功法《太乙玄功》。传闻掌门当年曾以缠绕手法，困住两名魔门元婴期高手。¤Lord Azure Bamboo is the current master of his sect, proficient in the sect's heavenly-ranked technique known as the 《Great Bronze Mystical Skill》. Rumours have it that he once used a tangled technique to trap two powerful Nascent Soul experts from the demonic sect.
嗯，外门弟子也可以从我派的基础入门功法中选择一种修炼，你对修炼功法可有了解？¤Hmm, outer disciples can also choose one cultivation technique from our sect's basic entry-level techniques. Do you have any understanding of cultivation techniques?
本派外门弟子若要学习法术，都由我来传授。我会考察你近期的{color=#d0380a}修为进境{/color}，来决定是否传授给你新的法术。¤If a disciple of the outer sect wants to learn spells, I will be the one to teach them. I will assess your recent cultivation progress to determine whether or not to teach you new spells.
《鸩羽诀》是中庸类的功法，修炼后能够在战斗开始时，便使敌方进入中毒的状态。¤《Toxic Quill Technique》 is a cultivation technique that belongs to the neutral category. When cultivated, it can cause the enemy to be poisoned at the start of combat.
外门弟子想要晋升入内门，有两种方式。其一是将修为突破至筑基期，筑基与炼气实乃天壤之别，在门派内也属于非常重要的一股力量，自然可以成为内门弟子。¤Outer disciples have two ways to promote to inner disciples. One way is to break through their cultivation to the foundation establishment level. Building the foundation is vastly different from refining qi and is seen as a crucial power in the sect, thus making them eligible to become inner disciples.
你要勤加修炼，切记不可懈怠。¤You must diligently cultivate and never slack off.
你想具体了解哪位前辈？¤Do you want to know more about which senior?
还是先将刚刚外门执事嘱托之事办完再来吧...¤Let's first finish the task entrusted to me by the outer sect deacon earlier before coming back...
其二便是参加外门每三十年一次的外门大比，凡是在大比中夺魁者，也能直接成为内门弟子。¤The second way is to participate in the Outer Sect's grand competition, which is held every thirty years. Whoever wins the competition can become an inner disciple directly.
紫菱仙子是我派大长老，修为不在掌门师兄之下。她主修的《九冲图集》诡异多变，在对敌时能使对手陷入多种负面状态，是极为强大的战斗功法。¤Ziling Fairy is the grand elder of our sect, with a cultivation level that surpasses even the master senior brother. Her main cultivation technique, 《Nine Rush Atlas Arts》, is incredibly versatile and eerie, able to trap opponents in various negative states during combat. It is an extremely powerful technique.
何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤What's going on?
内门弟子便可直接拜入我派一名长老门下修行，本门目前还在收徒的有四位前辈，分别是青蛇真人、青竹道人、紫菱仙子、长春真人。¤Inner disciples can directly become the disciple of one of the elders in our sect to cultivate. Currently, there are four seniors in our sect who are still accepting disciples, namely Paragon Azure Snake, Lord Azure Bamboo, Fairy Ziling, and Paragon Eternal Spring.
《青藤诀》是修炼型的功法，修炼后能够在与人对敌时驱使藤蔓缠绕攻击对手。¤is a cultivation technique that allows the user to control a tangled vine to strike and attack opponents in combat.
如果你还想兼修本门的其它功法，可以去门派藏经阁内借阅。¤If you want to cultivate other techniques from our sect, you can borrow them from the hidden manual pavilion of the sect.
青蛇前辈乃是本门供奉，亦是本派最年轻的金丹期修士，自创功法《青蛇劲》，乃我派毒术大师。¤Senior Green Snake is the honored guest elder of our sect and also the youngest cultivator at the golden core stage. They have created the Azure Snake Art technique, which makes them the master of poison techniques within our sect.
长春真人是我派掌门青竹的师弟，修炼的是我派秘术《万象寄生诀》，同样也是精通缠绕之道，实力不俗。¤Zhao Zhi, also known as Paragon Eternal Spring, is the junior of our sect master Qing Zhu. He cultivates our sect's secret arts, including the infinite parasitism technique 《万象寄生诀》 and is skilled in the art of tangling. He is a formidable expert in his own right.
晚辈是新入门的外门弟子，来选取入门的功法。¤I am a new outer disciple who is here to choose my entry-level techniques.
本派入门功法有《上青诀》，《鸩羽诀》和《青藤诀》，你想学习哪一个？¤Our sect's basic techniques include 《Rising Greenery Technique》, 《Toxic Quill Technique》, and 《Green Vine Technique》. Which one do you want to learn?
晚辈明白了¤The junior understands now.
《上青诀》是战斗类的功法，修炼后能够提升五行连击后木系法门的威能。¤《Rising Greenery》 is a combat technique that, when cultivated, enhances the power of the Wood element technique after performing a combo strike with all five elements.
这宁州古迹危险重重，{$TmpTalkString}可得多些保命手段才是。¤This Ning Province ancient ruin is filled with danger, so {$TmpTalkString}, you must have more means of preserving your life.
道友此等年纪便有如此高深的修为，真是羡煞旁人啊！¤Fellow Daoist, you possess such profound cultivation at such a young age. It truly leaves others envious!
传闻在这宁州古迹中封印着绝世灵剑，只可惜至今也没有修士得取此剑。¤Rumours have it that within the ancient ruins of Ning Province lies a peerless spirit sword sealed away, unfortunately no cultivator has been able to obtain it to this day.
尽管希望渺茫，但以真人元婴巅峰的修为，如果能够成功突破，未必没有幸存的可能性。{$TmpTalkString}若是能帮忙留意一番，明河在此谢过。¤Despite the slim chances, with an expert's nascent soul cultivation at its peak, there is still a possibility of survival if a breakthrough can be achieved. {$TmpTalkString} If you could kindly keep an eye out, Minghe would be most grateful.
也罢，多一人帮忙便多一丝机会。¤Alright, one more person helping increases our chances by a bit.
古迹寻宝当然各凭本事...哎...不过若是{$TmpTalkString}遇到危险，我也不会袖手旁观。¤When it comes to treasure hunting in ancient ruins, it's every man for himself... sigh... But if {$TmpTalkString} encounters danger, I won't just be watching from the sidelines.
这宁州古迹危险重重，道友可得多些保命手段才是。¤This Ningzhou ancient ruin is extremely dangerous, fellow daoist should prepare more life-saving methods instead.
明河道友似乎遇到了什么麻烦？如果有我帮的上忙的事情，但说无妨。¤Fellow Daoist Minghe seems to have encountered some trouble? If there's anything I can help with, feel free to mention it.
原来是明河长老。许久未见，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turns out to be Elder Minghe. It's been a long time since we last met. If we happen to meet in the ancient ruins, please take care of me.
衍复长老也是得此消息入古迹求索，结果...{$TmpTalkString}于古迹中也千万多加小心。¤Elder Yanfu also received this message and went to explore the ancient ruins, but... {$TmpTalkString} he was extremely careful throughout the exploration of the ruins.
原来是金虹剑派的明河长老，久仰大名，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turns out to be Elder Minghe from the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect. I've heard of your great reputation and would greatly appreciate any assistance if we cross paths within the ancient ruins.
没用的东西，滚开，我来会会这{xiaozi}。¤Useless thing, get lost, I'll deal with this {xiaozi}.
哈哈哈，痛快，痛快。¤Hahaha, enjoyable, enjoyable.
哈哈哈，这次还是哥哥我略胜一筹啊。¤Hahaha, this time big brother still won a small victory.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}言重了，碎星岛也非安全之地，未免夜长梦多，我们即日便启程前往化龙海域吧！¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, you overestimate it. Shattered Star Island is not a safe land. We might as well leave for the Shifting Dragon Sea immediately!
没想到此行竟生如此事端...抱歉，道友，我还要与族中共议大事。¤I didn't expect such a big incident to happen during this trip... Sorry, fellow daoist, I still have important matters to discuss with my clan.
没想到魔门竟已渗透进宁州...如此看来大变将至啊...¤I didn't expect that the Devil Sect has already infiltrated Ningzhou... It seems that a big change is coming...
哈哈哈哈，若道友无事，我倒有东西想给道友一看。¤Hahaha, Fellow Daoist, if you have the time, I have something I'd like to show you.
宁州有一座古战场，每千年才出世一次，这次……¤In Ningzhou, there is an ancient battlefield that only surfaces once every thousand years. This time...
你讲述了在浪方海与浪方大圣搏斗的过程。¤You narrated the process of fighting against the Great Sage Langfang in the Langfang Sea.
呵呵，好说，那道友便小心了。¤Hehe, no problem. Fellow daoist, please be careful.
哈哈哈，道友相邀，我又怎会拒绝。¤Hahaha, fellow daoist invites me, how can I refuse.
这浪方大圣在无尽之海上已是最顶尖之强者，连我也不愿轻易招惹他，没想到竟会败在了道友手中？¤This Great Sage Langfang is already the strongest in the endless sea, even I am unwilling to easily provoke him. I didn't expect to be defeated by a fellow daoist?
你讲述了与鹤真人相遇的故事。¤You narrated the story of meeting with the expert He Zhenren.
原来是小友……不知近来小友修为可有提升？¤So it's a young friend... I wonder if your cultivation has improved recently?
说罢，吞云大圣便开始运起了功法，四周顿时云雾环绕。你每有不甚明白的地方，吞云大圣都一一为你讲解。整套功法演练完，竟已过去了一天一夜。¤After speaking, the Cloud Swallowing Saint activated his technique, causing clouds and mist to surround him. Whenever you were unsure about something, he would explain it to you one by one. By the time the entire technique had been practiced, a day and a night had already passed.
无尽海渊的九幽大圣，居然还会使用阵法……¤The Nine Underworld Saint of the Endless Abyss, actually knows how to use arrays...
我这段时间积累了一些心得体会，正好与道友交流一番罢。¤During this time, I have accumulated some insights and experiences, so I thought I would exchange them with my fellow daoist.
近来技痒，想与大圣切磋一番¤Recently, I've been itching to duel with the Great Sage.
浪方海那浪方大圣，竟能施展吞噬秘术将人一口吞下……¤The Great Sage Langfang of the Langfang Sea was able to use his devouring secret arts to swallow a person whole...
即便我全力出手，想要破开位面裂隙也难以做到，可想而知当年那场大战的规模。¤Even if I use all my strength, it would be difficult to break open the cracks in the dimensional plane. You can imagine the scale of that great war back then.
纵然他针上所附之物伤不到我，但我也拿他毫无办法，倒也算他小胜一筹。¤Even though the thing attached to his needle cannot harm me, I have no way to counter him, so I suppose he has won this small victory.
已习得《{color=red}玄武吐纳术{/color}》¤Already mastered the 《{color=red}black tortoise exhalation technique{/color}》.
你讲述了在无尽海渊与九幽大圣斗智斗勇的经历。¤You recounted your experience of battling wits with the Nine Underworld Saints in the Endless Abyss.
若今日能再战一场……唉，罢了。¤If I could fight another battle today... sigh, forget it.
你向他绘声绘色地讲述了你在宁州古迹的经历。¤You vividly recounted to him your experience at the ancient ruins of Ning Province.
不错，道友竟突破到了化神期。¤Not bad, fellow daoist actually broke through to the void transformation stage.
道友谬赞了，既然阁下也是化神修为，何须我来指点？¤Fellow daoist, you flatter me. Since you also have a deity transformation cultivation, there's no need for me to offer guidance.
你二人聊了聊往事，作为修仙路上的消遣倒也不错。¤You two chatted about the past, which was a good pastime on the journey of cultivating immortality.
可惜最近没有什么心得体会，只得陪道友叙叙旧了。¤Unfortunately, I haven't had any recent insights to share, so I can only catch up with my fellow daoist.
不过若我进入那古战场中，倒是有自信抵抗那煞气千年。¤However, if I were to enter the ancient battlefield, I am confident that I can resist the thousand year demonic qi.
只是刚好路过，来看看道友罢了。¤I just happened to be passing by and came to see my fellow daoist.
这是……如此珍贵的功法，为何这般传授于我？¤This is such a precious technique, why is it being taught to me like this?
你二人畅谈了许久，双方都收益颇丰。¤You both talked for a long time and both sides benefited greatly.
只有修炼过瞳术才能看见？此等经历，若不是道友告知，只怕此生都无机会知晓。¤Only those who have cultivated the Eye Technique can see it? If it weren't for a fellow daoist telling me, I'm afraid I wouldn't have had the chance to know about this experience in my entire life.
你可知道，无尽之海最南端有三片阴气浓郁的海域……¤Do you know that at the southernmost point of the endless sea, there are three areas shrouded in thick Yin energy...
哈哈哈，一般妖兽若无血脉优势，本无机会突破化神，这九幽也算是得到了一些了不得的机缘。¤Hahaha, ordinary spirit beasts without bloodline advantage, have no chance to break through deity transformation, this Nine Abyss also got some pretty great chances.
这个，大圣一试便知。¤This, the Great Sage will know with just one attempt.
道友与我相交也不浅了，这便是我族祖传功法玄武吐纳术。切记，此功法莫要外传。¤Fellow daoist, we have been acquainted for quite some time now. This is the black tortoise exhalation technique, passed down in my family through generations. Remember, this technique must not be shared with outsiders.
你讲述了在极阴三海上所发生的故事。¤You told the story of what happened in the Extreme Yin Three Seas.
他的遁术相当高明，与他的飞针术配合简直完美无缺。¤His mobility was quite brilliant, and when combined with his flying needle technique, it was simply flawless.
哦？原来是道友。许久不见，可有带来什么奇闻异事？¤Oh? It's a fellow daoist. Long time no see, did you bring any strange news with you?
吞云大圣盛名已久，自然是有过人之处。¤The Cloud Swallowing Saint has long been renowned for his extraordinary abilities.
好，那便由本座来检验一二吧。¤Well, let me test it myself then.
百余年前本座曾与九幽起过一些冲突，没想到同为化神期修为，他居然未曾出手便逃回他的老巢去了。如此一来，本座倒也不屑于再与他有何争斗了。¤More than a hundred years ago, this seat had some conflicts with Jiuyou. Unexpectedly, both were at the Void Transformation stage, but he fled back to his lair without even making a move. In this way, this seat is not interested in fighting with him anymore.
不必谦虚，化神境有多难突破，你我心知肚明……不知道友来此所谓何事？¤No need to be humble, we both know how difficult it is to break through to the deity transformation realm... I'm curious, what brings my fellow daoist here?
我听闻鹤真人曾与你切磋过……¤I have heard that Expert He once dueled with you...
九嶷山此地的修士数量并不少，但大多是前往灵气充沛的山峰收集草药。¤There are quite a number of cultivators in Jiuyi Mountain, but most of them go to the peaks with abundant qi enrichment to collect herbs.
不过，与其说那人是在此地疗伤，倒更像是在等什么人。¤However, rather than saying that person was here for healing, it seemed more like he was waiting for someone.
{$daihao}，敛息凝神...他应该就在这附近了。¤{$daihao}, restraining his breath and focusing his senses... he should be somewhere nearby.
（还不知道这琚运琦到底想做什么，不如先假装不敌，逼他出手看看...）¤(I still don't know what Ju Yunqi wants to do, so I'll pretend to be defeated and force him to make a move and see…)
你和琚运琦却一路向着人烟稀少，灵气枯竭的地方走去，渐渐进入了山谷之中。¤You and Ju Yunqi proceeded towards the sparsely populated and spirit energy-depleted area, gradually entering into a valley.
掩人耳目罢了，没什么可奇怪的。¤It's just a matter of deceiving others' ears and eyes, nothing strange about it.
你与琚运琦一同小心探查，果然在山谷中的一处隐蔽之地发现了那血剑宫长老的踪迹。¤You and Ju Yunqi carefully explored together, and sure enough, found the trace of the blood sword palace elder in a hidden place in the valley.
你正要动手，突然间却汗毛直立，一股杀意从你的背后袭来。¤As you were about to make a move, suddenly your hairs stood on end, and a killing intent came attacking you from behind.
一旦找到他，就立刻动手！¤As soon as you find him, act immediately!
你怎么在这？¤Why are you here?
萧千绝涨红了脸，一副有气撒不出的样子。¤Xiao Qianjue's face turned red, looking like he was trying to vent his anger but couldn't.
才消停片刻，二人又开始争吵起来。¤After a short period of calm, the two began to argue again.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我们改日再会吧。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, let's meet again another day.
你明知道我激发完灵气就力竭了，还分出个胜负？这不是欺负人麽？¤Do you know that I am exhausted after I use up all my spiritual energy, yet you still want to declare a winner? Isn't this unfair?
你也没想他一言不合竟离开了此地，琢磨着会不会是自己的问题。¤You didn't expect that he would just leave like that after a few words, and you wondered if it was your own fault.
哼，明年再来风雷谷吧。¤Hmph, come back to Wind and Thunder Valley next year.
你也没想她一言不合竟离开了此地，琢磨着会不会是自己的问题。¤You didn't think she would leave just like that, pondering whether it was your own fault.
“此二人剑招之精妙，实乃生平罕见…”¤Their human sword technique is truly rare and exquisite, a sight to behold in their lifetimes...
我见你杀意正浓，误以为是在死斗，方才出手相救。¤I saw your strong killing intent and thought you were in a life-and-death struggle, so I made a move to help.
漫天剑光一如飞雪舞天。那女修一退再退，眼看便要招架不住。¤The sword lights in the sky were like snow dancing in the air. The female cultivator kept retreating until she was about to lose her strength to defend. The Heavenly Sword was too powerful, like the Flying Snow was too quick.
……我觉得萧道友的剑更胜一筹。¤...I think Fellow Daoist Xiao's sword is superior.
虽说这个事实让你很是意外，不过既然打断了他们的比试，你还是表示了自己的歉意。¤Although this fact surprised you, since you interrupted their competition, you still expressed your apologies.
可即便如此，此前消耗过度的灵气却是无法弥补，尽管招式再巧妙，也只能延缓她落败的时间罢了。¤But even so, the previously overconsumed spiritual energy cannot be replenished. Although the moves are clever, it can only delay her defeat.
哪知道，最后我们打到灵气耗尽，竟然都没有分出胜负！¤Who knew that in the end, we fought until we ran out of spiritual energy, and we still couldn't determine the winner!
来者何人？何故打搅我二人切磋？¤Who are you? Why are you interrupting our duel?
就当时情形而言，确实是他略胜一筹…¤In terms of the situation at the time, he was indeed slightly better off...
好奇之下，你收敛气息靠了过去，打算一探究竟。¤Out of curiosity, you restrained your breath and approached, intending to find out what's going on.
想当初他第一次来星河剑派的时候，姐妹们都当他不是什么正经人物，纷纷以一种异样的眼光看着他。¤When he first came to the Celestial River Sword Sect, the sisters didn't take him seriously and looked at him with strange eyes.
想不到你们还发生过这样的事，当真有趣！¤I didn't expect such a thing to happen to you guys. It's really interesting!
你飞身相助，替那女修挡下了这一连串攻击。男修见状也强行收住了攻势。¤You flew over to help and protected the female cultivator from this series of strikes. The male cultivator also forcibly stopped his attack upon seeing this.
他们除了修为高以外，实战经验定然也相当不俗，否则不可能达到如此地步。¤Apart from their high level of cultivation, their actual combat experience must also be quite remarkable, otherwise it would not be possible to reach such a level.
哈哈哈哈，我们就是因为那次比试谁也不服谁，所以才有后面这么多的比试。¤Hahaha, it's because of that competition where nobody was willing to submit to each other that there were so many following competitions.
这一比试，就比试到了现在…¤This competition has come to this point...
萧千绝自然也是不服，又找上了星河剑派，如此往复。¤Xiao Qianjue naturally didn't accept it and kept going back to Celestial River Sword Sect.
还有力气在这吹嘘，不如比试继续，我们分出个胜负，如何？¤Instead of boasting here, why don't we continue our competition and determine a winner?
萧千绝¤Xiao Qianjue
起初由于宗门大比在金虹剑派举行，第二年的比试便定在了风雷谷，结果却是萧千绝略胜一筹。¤Initially, the clan competition was held in the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, but the second year's competition was held in Wind and Thunder Valley, where Xiao Qianjue emerged as the slightly better competitor.
“叮叮叮、叮叮、叮……”¤Ding ding ding, ding ding, ding......
虽说你对此毫无办法，不过就待在一旁听他们拌嘴，倒也别有一番趣味。¤Although you have no way to deal with it, it's quite enjoyable to watch them argue from the sidelines.
没想到竟然是你们两个…¤I didn't expect it to be you two...
…难道你们并非死斗，而是在切磋？¤...Could it be that you're not in a life-or-death battle, but rather just dueling?
随着女修灵气率先耗尽，男修的剑陡然停下。原来二人并非死斗，只是切磋而已。¤As the spirit energy of the female cultivator was the first to be depleted, the male cultivator's sword suddenly came to a halt. It turns out that the two of them were not fighting to the death, they were just dueling.
慕容颖收回剑，像没事人一样问道。¤Asking the way, what can I do for you?
谁知他摸了摸头，一脸尴尬的看着你，丝毫没有动手的意思，让你有种不好的预感。¤Who knew, he touched his head and looked at you embarrassedly, showing no intention to take action, letting you have a bad premonition.
…若我感应不错，此二人不过也是筑基修为，为何实力却是如此强劲？¤If my instincts are correct, these two are only at foundation building cultivation level. Why is their strength so powerful?
好，便依你这一回。¤Alright, then I'll take your lead this time.
交换后，你们便各自离开了此地。¤After the exchange, you both left this place.
数息过去，那男修由攻转守，女修便趁此机会步步紧逼。¤As the moments passed, the male cultivator transitioned from attacking to defending, giving the female cultivator the opportunity to press closer and closer.
变故转瞬即至，那男修隐约在胸口虚点两下，灵气便突然暴涨，顿觉杀意滔天。¤Changes happened in an instant. The male cultivator vaguely tapped his chest twice, and his spiritual energy suddenly surged, feeling a violent intent to kill.
哼，死了也只能怪你学艺不精。¤Hmph, if you die, you can only blame your lack of skill.
几次之后，二人干脆定下一个规矩，每年上一次的败者都要去胜者的后山比试。¤After a few times, the two of them simply established a rule that every year, the loser of the previous competition would have to go to the winner's back mountain to compete.
嗯，我也正有此意。¤Mm, I also have such intentions.
萧兄与慕容姑娘此番相互激励，想必对双方都大有裨益。¤Xiao Xiong and Murong Girl's mutual encouragement must be of great benefit to both sides.
我先故意示弱，目的就是想诱敌深入，等她急于进攻，灵气都消耗的差不多了，我再出手。¤I deliberately showed weakness first, with the aim of luring the enemy deeper. When she is eager to attack and has consumed almost all of her spiritual energy, I will make my move.
双方长老商议后，那场比赛最终以平局收场，我们被破例双双进入内门。¤After discussion between the elders of both sides, the game ended in a tie, and we were both exceptions to enter the inner sect.
今日相谈甚欢，不如留下传音符印记，以便日后联系？¤Today we had a great talk, how about leaving a sound talisman imprint for future contact?
他们二人纷纷转头看向了你。¤Both of them turned their heads and looked at you.
慕容颖。¤Murong Ying.
回想起他刚刚的滔天杀意，你丝毫不觉得，这一切只是在切磋而已。¤Recalling his immense killing intent just now, you couldn't help but feel that everything was just a duel.
{FirstName}道友，依你之见，这次比试当属谁更胜一筹？¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, in your opinion, who will come out on top in this competition?
舞剑二人竟都是你熟识之人，你当即明白了事情的原委。¤The two sword dancers turned out to be people you knew well, and you immediately understood the truth of the matter.
那次宗门大比，回想起来也是过去不少年了。¤That clan competition, thinking back, was also many years ago.
你身为金虹剑派首席大弟子，莫非想赖账不成？¤As the chief disciple of the Radiant Sword Sect, do you intend to shirk your responsibilities? 
最后大长老怕我们受伤，强行叫停了比赛。¤In the end, the grand elder stopped the competition forcefully to avoid any injuries to us.
二人若论修为，乃是慕容颖更胜一筹，但萧千绝奇谋摆出，时常能以智取胜，所以胜负始终离不开五五之数。¤If we're talking about cultivation, Murong Ying is slightly stronger than Xiao Qianjue. However, Xiao Qianjue is known for his cunning strategies and often wins through intelligence, so the outcome of their battles is always a close call.
看他们的反应你便大抵猜到，八成是问到什么只有他们自己知道的事情了。¤Looking at their reactions, you can roughly guess that they were asked about something only they themselves know.
可那男修却丝毫不惧，卸力、躲闪之下，反倒是攒下了不少灵气。¤But the male cultivator was not afraid at all. Instead, he used his strength to dodge and ended up accumulating a lot of spiritual energy.
得了吧，你灵气都快枯竭了，还破釜沉舟？¤Give it up, your spiritual energy is almost depleted. Why bother with the last stand?
{FirstName}道友以为，我这招破釜沉舟威力如何？¤Fellow daoist {FirstName}, what do you think of the power of my move, the Last Stand?
现在天色也不早了，我也要回去修养了。¤The sky is not early now, I also need to go back for my cultivation.
道友放心，萧千绝并非心胸狭隘之人，绝不会因此记恨与你，不过……¤Fellow Daoist, rest assured that Xiao Qianjue is not a narrow-minded person. He will not hold a grudge against you for this. However...
此次比试确实是我疏忽大意了，若我当时没有急于进攻，转而积蓄剑意，或许还能建立些许优势。¤I was careless in this competition. If I hadn't been so eager to attack and instead accumulated my sword intent, perhaps I could have gained a slight advantage.
只要我挺过这攻势，使出破釜沉舟，你必败无疑。¤As long as I withstand this attack and make my last stand, you will surely be defeated.
要是她来连石山的话，那倒是无所谓，平局我也认了。¤If she comes to Liangshi Mountain, then it doesn't matter. I'll accept a tie.
言罢，他又自顾自地讲起了这些年比试的故事。¤Having spoken, he then selfishly continued to tell the stories of the competitions he had participated in over the years.
“轰隆——”{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Boom—— {vpunch=10,0.5}
在下{FirstName}{LastName}，敢问二位怎么称呼？¤I am {FirstName}{LastName}, may I ask how should I address the two of you?
那时我们才十二、三岁，却都步入了炼气后期，便不约而同地参加了那次的宗门大比。¤At that time, we were only twelve or thirteen years old, but we had all reached the late qi refining stage and coincidentally participated in the clan competitions.
现在天色已晚，我再不回去修炼便又要被师尊奚落了…¤Now that it's already late, if I don't go back to cultivate, my master will mock me again...
看见相救乃是熟识之人，你有点庆幸自己选择出手相助。¤Seeing the person who came to help was someone familiar, you felt fortunate that you chose to lend a hand. Help is at hand, you thought.
…这是为何？¤...Why is this?
我们击败了大我们许多的炼气巅峰修士，一路过关斩将，最后竟在决赛相遇了。¤We defeated many higher-level qi refining cultivators and fought our way to the finals where we unexpectedly met each other.
慕容颖不服，第三年又找上了金虹剑派，二人便又在连石山比试了一场，这次却是慕容颖胜了。¤Murong Ying was not convinced, so in the third year, she went to the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect again. The two of them had another match at Liangshi Mountain, but this time Murong Ying emerged victorious.
慕容颖，咱们明年连石山见！¤Murong Ying, we'll meet at Liangshi Mountain next year!
舞剑之人竟是你熟识之人，你当即明白了事情的原委。¤The person dancing with the sword is someone you know well, and you immediately understand the truth of the matter.
胜便是胜、败便是败。真到了危难时刻，便是你死我亡，怎会有平局出现？¤Victory is victory, defeat is defeat. When it comes to a crisis, it's either you die or I die. How could there be a tie?
瞧你那副小人得志的样子…¤Look at you, with that smug look of self-importance…
平局的话，那明年到底是我去风雷谷，还是她来连石山？¤If it's a tie, who will go to Wind and Thunder Valley next year, me or her to Liangshi Mountain?
那次比试？¤That competition?
这…莫不是我说错了话？¤Could it be that I misspoke?
…道友误会了，我二人确实是在切磋，只是早已熟悉彼此的招式与实力，所以才敢全力以赴。¤Fellow daoist, you've misunderstood. We are indeed dueling, but we are well-known to each other's techniques and abilities, which is why we can go all out.
嗯…{FirstName}道友恐怕是误会了，我二人只是在切磋而已，并无恶意。¤Hmm... Fellow daoist {FirstName}, you may have misunderstood. My companion and I are just having a friendly duel, and mean no harm.
你们又聊了许久，不觉间天色已是渐晚。¤You chatted for a long time again, and before you knew it, it was already getting dark.
眼看二人争执不下，你便想着当一回和事佬。¤Seeing the two people unable to reconcile their differences, you think of being a mediator for once.
既然{FirstName}道友如此说，我也毫无怨言。¤Since fellow daoist {FirstName} has spoken, I have no complaints.
她略微转过头，脸上难以察觉到地泛起了一丝微红。¤She slightly turned her head and a faint blush appeared on her face, which was hard to detect.
你认识？¤Do you know?
可是，你们不是曾经有过一次平局嘛？¤However, didn't you once have a tie?
虽说方才那架势，任谁来都决不可能看出只是切磋而已，不过既然打断了他们的比试，你还是表示了自己的歉意。¤Although the posturing just now was such that anyone could see it wasn't just a simple duel, since you interrupted their match, it's still appropriate to express your apology.
见识过我的破釜沉舟后，你怎敢断言{FirstName}道友还会这样认为？¤After experiencing my last stand, how can you dare to assert that {FirstName} fellow daoist would still hold such a view?
抱歉，是在下唐突了……¤Sorry, I was rude...
她也就资质比我高一些而已，单比剑法怎么可能是我的对手？¤Her aptitude may be slightly higher than mine, but in terms of swordsmanship, how could she possibly be my opponent?
你忌惮被他们二人发现，便没有太过靠近，只是停在约莫二十丈开外静待事态发展。¤You were apprehensive about being discovered by the two of them, so you didn't get too close. Instead, you stopped about twenty yards away and waited quietly for the situation to develop.
依我看，两位实力相差无几，这场比试就当作平局如何？¤In my opinion, the two are evenly matched in strength. How about we call this match a tie?
萧千绝。¤Xiao Qianjue.
那这场比试可就算我赢了，现在我对你{$胜利次数}胜，{$失败次数}败，一平。¤Even if I win this match, currently I have {$胜利次数} victories over you, {$失败次数} losses and one draw.
一声巨响，萧千绝身后的树已然被笔直劈成两半，地面也被劈出一条长坑，而他却早早地闪到了一旁。¤With a loud bang, the tree behind Xiao Qianjue was split into two halves, and a long pit was created on the ground. However, he had already dodged to the side in advance.
{FirstName}道友，我们改日再会罢。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, let's meet again another day.
言罢，他便踏剑离开了此地。¤After speaking, he then stepped on his sword and left this place.
慕容颖¤Murong Ying 
我从小便苦修星河剑法，就算单论剑法也是我胜。¤Since I was young, I have been rigorously practicing the Celestial River Sword Skill, even if only in terms of swordsmanship, I am still unbeatable.
再回过神来，那二人早已离开，你也当即离开了此地。¤When you came back to your senses, those two had already left, and you immediately left this place.
听到你的疑问，他们先是愣了一下，又相互看了一眼，最后纷纷笑出声来。¤Upon hearing your question, they first paused for a moment, then exchanged a glance before bursting into laughter.
他费劲口舌解释的样子，现在回想起来都觉得好笑。¤The way he had explained it with such difficulty, now when looking back on it, it seemed so funny.
两人异口同声，果断地出人意料。¤The two of them spoke in unison and made an unexpected decision.
要不是觉得你顶不住我最后的攻势，{FirstName}{xiongdi}也不会贸然出手了，你说是吧？¤If it weren't for the fact that I thought you couldn't withstand my final attack, {FirstName} brother, I wouldn't have acted recklessly. Isn't that right?
…不过？¤...But?
{FirstName}道友？¤{FirstName}Fellow Daoist？
没想到竟然是萧兄…¤I didn't expect it to be Brother Xiao...
你将慕容颖保护在身后，警惕地看着那名男修。¤You protect Murong Ying behind you and watch the male cultivator vigilantly.
还好我不久就突破了筑基，立马就赢回了颜面。¤Luckily, I soon broke through the foundation building stage and immediately regained my dignity.
言罢，她便踏剑离开了此地。¤After speaking, she stepped on her sword and left this place.
大言不惭…¤Unabashed boasting...
慕容姐，我来助你。¤Murong sister, I'll come to help you.
放心，慕容颖虽然小气，但是没那么小气，这点小事她不会放在心上的。¤Don't worry, even though Murong Ying is stingy, she's not that stingy. She won't take this little matter to heart.
道别后，你们便各自离开了此地。¤After saying goodbye, you all left this place separately.
那可不行，这场明明是我赢了。你承认自己中计就这么难吗？¤No, that's not possible. I clearly won this round. Is it really that hard for you to admit that you were tricked?
你沉浸在剑招中，仿佛领悟到了一丝剑意之门道。¤You immerse yourself in the sword techniques, as if you have gained a glimpse of the enlightenment of the sword intent.
一阵急促的剑刃相交声传来，远方交战的动静不小，想必是发生了什么变故。\t¤A series of sharp clashes of sword blades could be heard, and there was a considerable commotion in the distance where the battle was taking place. It was likely that something unexpected had occurred.
修为高低与实力强弱本就不是必然关系。若是只会修枯禅，就算修到筑基巅峰，也不见得能胜过炼气修士。¤One's level of cultivation is not necessarily tied to their strength. Even if one has reached the pinnacle of foundation building with only dry meditation cultivation, they may not be able to defeat a qi refining cultivator.
刚刚那股杀意，分明是要取人性命，哪里是切磋的架势？¤Just now, that killing intent was clearly trying to take someone's life, where was the mood for a duel?
喂，你干嘛？这招要真打到可是要死人的！¤Hey, what are you doing? If you really use this move, someone could die!
风雷谷就风雷谷，明年等着瞧好了。¤Wind and Thunder Valley is Wind and Thunder Valley. Just wait and see next year.
约莫一炷香的时间，他们又吵回了最开始孰胜孰负的问题。¤Approximately the time it takes for an incense stick to burn, they argued back to the original question of who was superior.
不过我想到他得意的样子就来气，何况我也不是没有反败为胜的机会，就这样便算他胜也太便宜他了。¤But the thought of his smugness made me angry, and besides, I still had a chance to turn the tables. Even if he wins, it'll be too cheap for him.
刀光剑影！一男一女正在远处竹林中交战。其身法之迅速，快到你甚至看不清他们的动作与容貌。¤Sword flashes and shadow of blades! A man and a woman are fighting in a bamboo forest in the distance. Their movements are so fast that you can't even see their actions or faces clearly.
而且这次切磋确实是我更胜一筹，她肯定也知道这一点，之前跟我吵只是因为死要面子而已。¤Moreover, I clearly won the duel this time. She definitely knows it too. The argument we had before was just because she didn't want to lose face.
她一招一式力道都极重，似能断水摧山，若是寻常修士，接她半招恐怕都要拼尽全力。¤Her every move was powerful, as if she could break water and crush mountains. If an ordinary cultivator faced her, even half a move would require them to use all their strength.
切磋？¤Duel?
我看你修为没什么长进，嘴上功夫倒是长进不少……¤I see that your cultivation hasn't improved much, but you've become quite adept at talking...
当时我们还不认识，看见对方只是小屁孩，就完全没放在眼里。¤At that time, we didn't know each other yet. When we saw each other, we were just little brats and didn't pay each other any attention.
只见女修一转剑意，变得柔韧婉约起来，一招一式也能化险为夷。¤I saw the female cultivator's sword intent transform into a gentle and graceful style, allowing her to easily evade danger with each move.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，刚刚你应该都看见了吧？¤{FirstName} brother, did you just see that?
她的语气冷淡中夹杂着一丝不屑。¤Her tone was mixed with a hint of disdain.
好，我也正有此意！¤Great, that's exactly what I meant!
先不说这个，刚刚要不是你拦着我，她早就败在我的剑下了，这你可要怎么赔我？¤Let's not talk about that for now. If you hadn't stopped me just now, she would have been defeated by my sword a long time ago. How are you going to compensate me for this?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}？！！你……¤{FirstName} brother?! You...
没想到她果然中计了，哈哈哈哈哈！¤I didn't expect her to really fall for it, hahaha!
慕容颖咬了咬牙，你隐约能看见她心中强行压下的怒火。¤Murong Ying bit her lip, and you could faintly see the anger she forcibly suppressed within her heart.
哈哈哈哈，不愧是{FirstName}{xiongdi}，真是慧眼如炬！¤Hahaha, it's really {FirstName}{xiongdi}, with such sharp insight!
虽然明面上以平局收场，但我们却谁都不服谁，就开始私下约着比试。¤Although it ended in a tie on the surface, we were all dissatisfied with each other and started arranging private competitions.
你回头看向那名女修，想求证自己的判断是否正确。¤You turn to the female cultivator and want to verify whether your judgment is correct.
第七年的时候，我在炼气巅峰还未突破，没想到她率先突破到了筑基期，比试的时候还丝毫没有留手！真是不讲武德！¤In the seventh year, when I was still at the peak of qi refining and had yet to have a breakthrough to foundation establishment, she unexpectedly broke through to the foundation building stage ahead of me. During our competition, she didn't even show mercy! What a lack of sportsmanship!
你不过会耍一些小聪明而已，若是……¤You only know how to play some small tricks, but if...
那就让{FirstName}{xiongdi}来评评理好了，{FirstName}{xiongdi}的话你总不至于信不过吧？¤Let {FirstName} brother give his opinion, surely you wouldn't mistrust {FirstName} brother's words?
……我觉得慕容道友的剑更胜一筹。¤...I believe Fellow Daoist Murong's sword is superior.
后来，你又问起了这些年比试的故事。¤Later on, you asked me about the stories of the trials we've undergone in these past years.
不过要我说，那场比赛要是继续下去肯定是我赢。¤But if you ask me, if that match continued, I would have definitely won.
以多欺少可不是正道所为，道友，我来助你！¤Bullying the young with numbers is not what righteous cultivators do, fellow daoist. I'll help you out! 
可惜这巨蟒修行未满，尚未结成{color=#d0380a}妖丹{/color}。否则这妖兽的妖丹，也是相当好的炼丹材料。¤Unfortunately, this giant python has not yet formed a {color=#d0380a}Demon Core{/color} due to incomplete cultivation. Otherwise, the demon core of this demonic beast would be a great alchemy material.
林子前方，只见一个年少俊朗剑修正与凶神恶煞的二人缠斗在一起。那剑修且战且退，二人则穷追不舍，步步紧逼。¤In front of the forest, a young and handsome sword cultivator was battling fiercely with two ferocious opponents. The sword cultivator was constantly retreating while the other two pursued him relentlessly, pressing closer with each step.
道友，偷听半天了，现在才想跑不觉得太晚了么？¤Fellow daoist, you eavesdropped for a long time, do you not think it is too late to try and run now?
那边的{xiongdi}！快救救我！只要救了我，我武陵城倪家必有重谢！¤Hey {xiongdi} over there! Please save me! If you save me, my family from the Ni clan in Wuling City will surely repay you generously!
定睛观瞧，只见那剑修招招娴熟凌厉，闪转腾挪下，二人以夹击之势竟也一时难以近身。¤Focus and watch closely, only to see that the sword cultivator's every move is skilled and fierce, flashing and moving with agility. The two of them, in a pincer attack, are momentarily unable to get close to each other.
双方见招拆招，有来有回，精彩异常，第一次亲眼看到修仙者斗法的你不禁感到大开眼界。¤Both sides exchange moves, with each having a turn, the spectacle is exceptionally brilliant. Witnessing cultivators engaging in combat for the first time, you cannot help but feel enlightened.
有点意思，这小子的御剑之术倒是可圈可点，别看那二人气焰汹汹，不过只是徒有声势罢了，只可惜灵气难以为继，怕是双拳难敌四手.....¤It's interesting. This young man's sword control is commendable. Don't be fooled by those two's imposing aura, they are just relying on their reputation. Unfortunately, their spiritual energy is limited, and they might be outnumbered.
害，这大蟒蛇看着吓人，其实也不过如此。¤Hai, this giant python looks scary, but it's not that big of a deal.
你这{xiaozi}才修炼没几日，能过第一轮就已经算不错了。¤You, {xiaozi}, have only been cultivating for a few days. Being able to pass the first round is already pretty good.
这一轮的对手似乎是离火门的修士...¤This opponent in this round seems to be a cultivator from the Fire Gate Sect...
这一轮的对手似乎是化尘教的修士...¤The opponent in this round seems to be a cultivator from the Shifting Sand Sect...
这一轮的对手似乎是竹山宗的修士...¤The opponent in this round appears to be a cultivator from the Bamboo Mountain Sect...
恭喜{FirstName}{LastName}选手获得第二轮比试的胜利。¤Congratulations to {FirstName}{LastName} for winning the second round of the competition.
这一轮的对手似乎是倪家的修士...¤The opponent in this round seems to be a cultivator from the Ni family...
这一轮的对手似乎是金虹剑派的修士...¤It seems like the opponent for this round is a cultivator from the Radiant Sword Sect...
咳咳咳...没想到第二轮就输了...¤Cough cough cough... Didn't expect to lose in the second round...
这一轮的对手似乎是林家的修士...¤This round's opponent seems to be a cultivator from the Lin family...
这一轮的对手似乎是星河剑派的修士...¤This round's opponent seems to be a cultivator from the Celestial River Sword Sect...
接下来马上开始第三轮的比试！¤The third round of competition will start immediately!
（邪魅地）就剩最后一点了，你那铁剑中的魂体也一并交出来吧。¤(Sinisterly) You only have a little bit left, so go ahead and give up the soul body in your iron sword.
要战便战罢。¤If we must fight, then let's fight.
上次是我输了，但这次不会。¤Last time I lost, but not this time.
让我见识见识你的实力吧。¤Let me witness your strength.
如今除了这杀人炼魂的邪修，这附近也该恢复太平了吧。¤Now that the demonic cultivator who killed to refine souls is gone, the area should recover peace.
我在倪旭荣的房间里发现了一张纸片。¤I found a piece of paper in Ni Xurong's room.
“老头儿，你是想起来什么了吗？”¤Old man, have you remembered something?
找...到戮仙剑...被...放在...什么地方...？倪旭荣这小子难道对戮仙剑动了心思？¤Where can I find the Immortal Executing Sword? Has Ni Xurong taken a liking to it and hidden it somewhere?
哎，对，就是那玩意！你这不是知道吗？¤Ah, yes, that thing! Don't you know?
只是觉得倪旭荣的房间过于整洁了......¤I just feel that Ni Xurong's room is too clean...
{xiongdi}竟不知戮仙剑？九州有四把魔剑，其中戮仙剑存于白帝城，诛仙剑不知所踪。另外两把传闻落入了魔门手中，但不知此消息真假。¤The {xiongdi} actually don't know about the Immortal Executing Sword? There are four Demon Swords in the Nine Continents, among them the Immortal Executing Sword is kept in the White Emperor City, while the whereabouts of the Immortal Sword is unknown. As for the other two, rumors say they have fallen into the hands of the demonic sects, but the credibility of these rumors is uncertain.
诛仙剑阵。¤Immortal slaying sword array.
诶？这小子从哪抠的字粘了这么张纸？¤Hey? Where did this kid copy these characters to stick on such a large piece of paper?
{xiongdi}怎么突然好奇起这个来了？¤Why are you suddenly curious about this, brother?
“还不是因为你这个哥哥不学无术...”¤It's all because you, as an elder brother, were uneducated and incompetent...
戮仙剑？¤Immortal executing sword?
据说集齐四剑可组成...组成...组成什么来着？¤It is said that collecting four swords can create...create...create what again?
......诛仙剑阵？¤......: Immortal Slaying Sword Array？
哈哈哈，那小子从小就这样一板一眼的，比老头子还像老头子！¤Hahaha, that kid has always been so serious since he was young, even more so than the old man!
别问我，我只是觉得这个阵法名字很熟悉就脱口而出了。¤Don't ask me, I just blurted out the name of this array because it sounded familiar.
你弟真的住在这府里吗？¤Does your younger brother really live in this mansion?
稍远处传来神通轰击阵法的声音，走进一看，发现是炎萧，百里奇等人在尝试以力破阵。¤In the distance came the sound of divine skills bombarding an array. Upon closer inspection, it was Yan Xiao, Baili Qi and others attempting to break the formation with raw power.
你观战了一会，发现炎萧等人不但没击破阵法核心，反倒受伤不轻。等他们退下来后，你走上去准备尝试一下。¤After observing for a while, you found that Yan Xiao and the others not only did not break the core of the array but also got injured. After they withdrew, you walked up to try it out.
击破一个傀儡后，你在附近发现了几个照顾伤者的修士，正是李青麟，慕容颖等人。¤After smashing a puppet, you stumbled upon several cultivators nearby who were taking care of injured comrades. Among them were Li Qinglin, Murong Ying, and others.
观察许久后，你看破了此阵。走上前去，随意一挥手便是灵力澎湃而出轰击在核心薄弱部位，只听“咔嚓“一声，后者也是随之碎裂。¤After observing for a long time, you saw through this formation. Walking forward, you casually waved your hand and spiritual power surged out, hitting the weak point of the core. You only heard a crack sound as it shattered.
不同于门口聚灵阵的破败，这片药田弥漫浓郁的火灵气。¤Different from the dilapidated gathering spirit array at the entrance, this herbs field is filled with a dense fire spirit aura.
虽周围魔气涌动，但一株仙果傲立其中。¤Although the magic qi surged around it, a fairy fruit stood proudly in the midst of it.
事毕，你在此地搜寻了一番。在一间临时搭建的洞府内，你找到了一些功法秘籍。¤After finishing your task, you searched the area and found some technique manuals in a makeshift cave.
万魂殿的功法？若有空，研究一二倒也不错。¤The techniques of the Wanhun Palace? If there is time, it wouldn't be bad to study them a bit.
凭此万魂幡，应该就足以证明我替阴魂岛解决了玄冥海的祸端吧...¤With this Ten Thousand Soul Banner, it should be enough to prove that I have resolved the trouble in the Deep Black Sea on behalf of Ghost Island…
此处乃是一片废墟，已经难以辨认是什么地方了。¤This is a ruins, it is difficult to recognize what the place used to be.
哈哈，你有年头没回逸风城看过了吧。新的宁王早就上任了，我们逸风城的散修总算不用过那种人心惶惶的日子了！¤Haha, it's been a while since you last visited Yifeng City. The new Ning King has taken office and our wandering cultivators in Yifeng City no longer have to live in fear!
兄台留步，这宁王可是回来任职了？¤Brother, wait a moment. Has Ning King returned to take up his post?
听说韩前辈几千年前修炼到元婴期，靠的是一本叫《长春功》的功法，可惜现在已经失传了。¤I heard that Senior Han cultivated to the Nascent Soul stage thousands of years ago, relying on a technique called Eternal Spring Cultivation. Unfortunately, it has been lost now.
等你挑选完自己的主修功法，{color=#d0380a}再回来找我{/color}。¤After you've chosen your primary technique, {color=#d0380a}come back to me{/color}.
不过到时候，师姐我可就是你的对手了。¤But by then, Senior Sister, I will be your opponent.
{shidi}，还没去领取入门功法么？¤{shidi}, have you not gone to collect the introductory technique yet?
{shidi}，还有什么事么？¤{shidi}, is there anything else?
{shidi}，还没去神兵阁么？¤{shidi}，Have you not gone to the Divine Warrior Pavilion yet?？
不错，看来你已经领好外门弟子的衣物了。¤Not bad, it seems like you have already received the clothing for the outer disciple.
你在门派内的居所刚刚我已经派人打扫干净，宗门内的大部分地方你都可以随意走动。¤Your residence within the sect has just been cleaned by my people. You are free to roam most areas within the sect as you please.
我派外门弟子也可以学习门派的一些基础功法和法术，藏经阁执事会根据师妹的修炼水平提供适合你修习的功法。¤Our outer disciples can also learn some basic techniques and spells of the sect. The library deacon will provide suitable techniques for you to practice according to your cultivation level, sister.
听说上一届天机阁的拍卖会上，有人出了好几千万灵石，拍到了一件通天灵宝级别的宝物，要是有机会能去开开眼界就好了。¤I heard that in the last Heavenly Machine Pavilion auction, someone offered tens of millions of spirit stones and won a spiritual treasure of the highest level. It would be great to have the opportunity to see it.
寒暄几句后，你推托不愿叨扰岛主修养，便离开了圣地。¤After a brief greeting, you declined to disturb the island master's cultivation any further, and left the Holy Land.
再次见到岛主时，他依旧端坐在内殿的交椅上，面容看起来清减了许多，眉目间那股阴邪之气也消散了。¤When I saw the island master again, he was still sitting on the chair in the inner hall, his face looking much thinner and the evil aura between his eyebrows had dissipated.
多谢小友救人水火，如果你愿意，千流岛的供奉之位依旧为你保留。¤Thank you young friend for saving someone in a time of need. If you are willing, the position of guest elder on Myriad Rivers Island will still be reserved for you.
那魔修所种植的万象花日前我已派人铲除，先前的供奉也都分发了丹药及补偿。我连家依旧会广纳贤士，相信假以时日，无尽之海上传播的便不会再是千流岛的凶名。¤I have ordered people to remove the myriad flowers planted by the demonic cultivator. The previous guest elders have also been given medicine and compensation. Myriad Rivers Island will continue to welcome talented individuals, and I believe that over time, the endless sea will not be associated with the evil reputation of Myriad Rivers Island.
不知岛主接下来有什么打算...？¤I do not know what plans the island master has for the future...?
你收下功法，思及那些受到控制的无辜散修，不由对千流岛后续如何解决这些棘手的问题感到几分疑惑。¤You accepted the technique and couldn't help feeling a bit puzzled about how Myriad Rivers Island would solve these tricky problems regarding the innocent wandering cultivators who were under control.
那{FirstName}某便祝千流岛早日恢复正轨。¤Then {FirstName} wishes that Myriad Rivers Island will recover soon and return to its rightful path.
除此之外，承蒙小友大恩，这是我千流岛连家真正的传承功法。¤Apart from that, young friend has been very gracious to us. This is the true inheritance technique of myriad rivers island and our family.
炼器租借，一次200灵石。{w}{w=0.5}¤Refining equipment rental, 200 spirit stones per use. {w}{w=0.5}
你啧啧称奇，一边开始调查石棺内部。偌大的石棺竟是空荡荡的，只是在中间摆放着一片巨大的黑色鳞片。¤You marvel in amazement, while beginning to investigate the interior of the stone coffin. Surprisingly, the large coffin is empty, with only a massive black scale lying in the center.
先收着吧，没准那些{color=#d0380a}采筠阁{/color}的修士会对它感兴趣呢。¤Let's keep it for now, maybe the cultivators of {color=#d0380a}Caegyun Pavilion{/color} will be interested in it.
你放出神识扫过，岩壁中心果然留有一个不小的空腔。你顺势找到了一个隐蔽的洞口，一路来到了洞窟的中心，只见一个足有数十丈宽的巨大石棺被摆放在其中，饶是你见多是广，也不由得感到惊讶。¤As you release your soul sense, you discover a sizable cavity in the center of the rock wall. Taking advantage of this, you find a concealed cave entrance and make your way to the center of the cavern. There, you see an immense stone boulder, dozens of zhang in width, situated within. Even with your vast experience, you cannot help but feel astonished.
这些古代人类大费周章打造了这具石棺，将它运到这么高的峭壁上，想必这鳞片必定大有来头。¤These ancient humans went to great lengths to build this stone coffin and transport it to such a high cliff. Surely these scales must have great significance.
好大的石棺，这一定不是为普通人类打造的，真是稀奇。¤What a big stone coffin, this must not be made for ordinary humans, it's really strange.
看样子这里应该是某个古代工程的遗迹。如果我没猜错的话，外围的木桩不过是临时搭建的支点或者栈道，而这岩壁中心必定还内有乾坤。若是用神识探查一番，没准就能有所发现。¤It seems that this is the site of some ancient engineering project. If I'm not mistaken, the wooden dummies on the periphery are nothing more than temporary supports or walkways, while the center of this rock wall must hide a lot. If you use your soul sense to explore it, you might find something.
这木桩不似自然形成，那必定是人为搭建的。顺着这个想法，你在四处仔细观察了一番，果然又发现了不少类似的木桩。只是因为时间久远，大部分都已经腐朽破败了。¤This wooden dummy doesn't seem to have a natural origin, it must have been artificially constructed. Following this idea, you carefully observed your surroundings and indeed found many similar wooden dummies. However, due to the passage of time, most of them have already decayed and fallen apart.
嗯...这是什么妖兽身上的鳞片？看着和吞云蟒的鳞片有几分相似，但又不完全一样。¤Hmm... What kind of scales are on this spirit beast's body? They look somewhat similar to the scales of the Cloud Swallowing Boa, but not exactly the same.
这座岛上群峦叠嶂，你飞过一处岩壁，只见一根巨大的木桩突兀地插在岩缝之中，周围却空无一物。¤On this island, mountains and peaks loomed over one another. As you flew past a rocky wall, you'll see a massive wooden dummy jutting out of a crevice. However, the area surrounding it was completely empty.
师伯你听，连{FirstName}{xiongdi}都这么说了！¤Shifu, listen, even {FirstName}'s brothers are saying so!
嗯？{FirstName}{xiongdi}来了！快帮我劝劝师伯，换别的长老来镇守白帝楼吧！¤Hmm? {FirstName}{xiongdi} is here! Please help me persuade our master brother to replace another elder to guard the White Emperor Pavilion.
师祖，你就让我和你一起去吧。我现在也突破化神了，肯定不会给你惹麻烦的！¤Master, let me come with you. I have also achieved breakthrough deity transformation now, so I won't cause you any trouble!
好了{shidi}，随我来吧。¤Okay, junior brother, follow me.
你眼睛看向别处，装作没听到他叫你的样子。¤You averted your eyes and pretended not to hear him calling out to you.
你刚一走进白帝楼，便听到倪旭欣在大声嚷嚷着什么。¤As soon as you enter the White Emperor Pavilion, you can hear Ni Xuxin yelling something loudly.
倪旭欣看起来很失落。¤Ni Xuxin looks very upset.
此番玄道宗的混元子道友受我所邀为我飞升护法。我和他都不在，若是无人坐镇白帝楼，难免会重蹈上次玄道宗的覆辙。¤This time, fellow daoist Primordial Child from the Xuan Dao Sect was invited by me to be my protector during ascension. If neither of us are present, it is inevitable that the White Emperor Pavilion will suffer the same fate as the Xuan Dao Sect did last time.
师祖，你就让我和你一起去吧，我早就想看看渡劫是什么样的了！¤Master, please let me go with you. I have been wanting to see what Tribulation looks like!
白帝的声音突然一反常态的严肃起来。¤The White Emperor's voice suddenly turned serious, contrary to his usual demeanor.
此番我渡劫无论成功与否，白帝楼都要交到你们这些后辈的手上。若你还如此不识大体，让我如何放心的下？¤Whether I succeed in crossing the tribulation this time or not, the White Emperor Pavilion will be handed over to you juniors. If you still don't understand the bigger picture like this, how can I rest assured?
{FirstName}{xiongdi}你...¤{FirstName} brother, you...
我...我知道了...¤I...I understand now...
师兄便让他去吧，有其他白帝楼和玄道宗的长老留着，应该不会出什么纰漏的。¤Senior brother allowed him to go. There are other elders from White Emperor Pavilion and Xuan Dao Sect here, so there shouldn't be any mistakes.
{FirstName}供奉，我是碎星商会的管事{$name}，有什么需要我帮助的？{w}{w=0.5}¤{FirstName} Guest Elder, I am the steward {$name} of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. Is there anything I can assist you with?{w}{w=0.5}
他们祖传的炼体法门强悍无比，甚至能与一般的海兽正面抗衡而不落下风。¤Their ancestral body refinement technique is incredibly powerful, even able to confront sea beasts head-on without falling behind.
因此，每隔十年在南崖城举办的拍卖会，可以说是无尽之海上的一大盛事。¤Therefore, the auction held every ten years in South Cliff City can be considered a grand event in the endless sea.
可惜...不知为何他们一族得罪了龙族。这龙族势力强大，即便是商会也不愿与他们起冲突。¤Unfortunately... for some unknown reason, their clan has offended the dragon clan. The dragon clan is a powerful force, and even the business association does not want to conflict with them.
千余年前，百里家的确也是岛上的一大家族，实力甚至并不逊色于现在的三大家族。¤Over a thousand years ago, the Baili family was indeed one of the major families on the island, with strength that was even comparable to the current three major families.
不仅仅只是收集海上的宝物，我们还与中州，宁州的{color=#d0380a}天机阁{/color}，雍州，衡州的{color=#d0380a}广源商盟{/color}都有贸易往来，见过的奇珍异宝可谓数不胜数。¤We not only collect treasures from the sea, but we also trade with the {color=#d0380a}Heavens Secrets Pavilion{/color} in Zhongzhou and Ningzhou, the {color=#d0380a}Guangyuan Chamber of Commerce{/color} in Yongzhou and Hengzhou. We have seen countless exotic treasures.
噢，你是从何听起他们的？¤Oh, where did you hear about them from?
我们商会由碎星岛上的三大家族共同管理，商会的总部就设在南崖城，可以说是遍布于整片无尽之海上最大的商会组织。¤Our merchant guild is jointly managed by the three major clans on Shattered Star Island. The headquarters of the guild is located in South Cliff City, which can be said to be the largest commercial organization spread throughout the endless sea.
总之，因为这件事，百里全族一起迁离了碎星岛，也不知现在情况如何...¤In short, due to this matter, the Baili clan together relocated from Shattered Star Island, and it is unknown how things are currently.
当然，我们商会愿意用高价收购那些稀有的草药和材料，让我看看你有些什么吧。¤Of course, our trading guild is willing to purchase those rare herbs and materials at a high price. Let me see what you have.
我指的自然是唐家，白家和吴家。¤I'm referring to the Tang family, Bai family, and Wu family.
至于唐家与吴家，也是传承已久的古老家族，你在拍卖会上能买到的法宝与丹药大多出自他们两家之手。¤Regarding the Tang and Wu families, they are also ancient clans with a long heritage. Many of the artifacts and pills that you can buy at the auction are mostly made by them.
道友，我是碎星商会的管事{$name}，有什么需要我帮助的？{w}{w=0.5}¤Fellow daoist, I am the steward {$name} of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild. Is there anything I can assist you with? {w}{w=0.5}
我们商会里用的灵舟，大多是由白家炼制，远比寻常修士使用的灵舟要坚固许多。¤The spirit boats we use in our trading guild are mostly made by the Bai family, and they are much sturdier than the spirit boats used by ordinary cultivators.
因此，我们的船才敢开进那些密布灵气乱流的海域。¤Therefore, our ship dared to sail into those densely packed spiritual turbulent areas.
竟是化尘教的{FirstName}长老么？我常听别人提及你的名号，当真是年轻有为！¤Is it the Elder {FirstName} of the Shifting Sand Sect? I often hear others mention your name, it's truly impressive for someone so young!
这柄飞剑虽有纯阳法宝威能，但只有通过剑阵加持方可发挥。{$TmpTalkString}若有机会寻得此剑，还请交换给我派，我们必有重谢！¤Although this flying sword possesses the power of a pure yang magic weapon, it can only be fully utilized when strengthened by a sword array. {$TmpTalkString} If you have the opportunity to obtain this sword, please exchange it with our sect and we will surely reward you generously!
若能找回灵剑，便可重启剑阵护佑我派...唉。¤If we can retrieve the Spirit Sword, we can reactivate the Sword Array to protect our sect...sigh.
竟是离火门的{FirstName}长老么？我常听别人提及你的名号，当真是年轻有为！¤Is it the elder {FirstName} from Fire Gate Sect? I often hear people mention your name, you truly are outstanding at such a young age!
当年星河剑阵的威力也算名震宁州，熟料五阵眼之一的仙剑竟会遗失在这古迹中。¤In the past, the power of the Celestial River Sword Array was famous throughout Ningzhou. It's surprising that one of the five formations, the Immortal Sword, was lost in this ancient relic.
玄伶还有一事想要拜托{$TmpTalkString}。¤Xuan Ling also has one thing she wants to ask {$TmpTalkString}.
道友此番前往宁州古迹，切多加小心。¤Fellow daoist, when you go to the Ningzhou ancient ruin this time, please be extra careful.
原来是玄伶长老。许久未见，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turns out to be Elder Xuan Ling. It's been a long time since we last saw each other. If we meet again in an ancient ruin, please take care of me.
听说这次有不少其它州的修士也想进入古迹寻宝，我们这些宁州同道自然应该互相扶持。¤I heard that many cultivators from other states are also interested in exploring the ancient ruins. As fellow cultivators from Ningzhou, we should naturally support and assist one another.
竟是竹山宗的{FirstName}长老么？我常听别人提及你的名号，当真是年轻有为！¤Is it Elder {FirstName} from the Bamboo Mountain Sect? I have often heard others mention your name, truly you are young and talented!
原来是星河剑派的玄伶长老，久仰大名，此番若是在古迹中相遇，还请多多照应。¤It turns out to be Elder Xuanling of the Celestial River Sword Sect. I've long heard of your reputable name. If we meet again in this ancient site, please take care of me.
竟是金虹剑派的{FirstName}长老么？我常听明河长老提及你的名号，当真是年轻有为！¤Is it {FirstName}, the elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect? I have often heard Elder Minghe mention your name, truly a young talent!
我派曾经倾全派资源炼制过一套剑阵，共由五柄纯阳法宝级别的仙剑组成，威能不俗。¤My sect once used all its resources to refine a sword array consisting of five pure yang magic treasures at the treasure level, which possessed formidable power.
除了他们，还有数人受你所邀。遁光道道，他们从四面八方陆续赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤Apart from them, there were several others that you invited. They traveled from all directions with their escape light techniques to come and watch the ceremony from a distance closer to you.
除了他们，就只剩你一人在这风暴的中心，独自对抗天降的雷劫。¤Except for them, only you are left in the center of this storm, facing the thunder kalpa that falls from the sky alone.
以你为中心，附近所有的修士都被天地异象所吸引。他们不敢靠近，只能远远的围观。¤With you at the center, all the cultivators in the vicinity were attracted by the anomaly of heaven and earth. They dared not approach, only able to watch from afar.
除了他们，还有百余人受你所邀。遁光道道，他们从四面八方陆续赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤Apart from them, more than a hundred people were invited by you. They arrived one after another from all directions with various magical ways, and gathered to watch the ceremony in a place closer to you.
你腾空而起，四下观瞧，寻了一处开阔的空地准备迎接天劫。¤You soar into the air, looking around, and find an open space to prepare for the feat of the heavens.
除了他们，还有数十人受你所邀。遁光道道，他们从四面八方陆续赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤Apart from them, there are also dozens of people invited by you. They rush from all directions, showing up one after another and watch from a place closer to you.
除了他们，还有十余人受你所邀。遁光道道，他们从四面八方陆续赶来，在离你稍近的地方观礼。¤Apart from them, there are more than ten people invited by you. They rushed from all around using escape techniques, arriving one after another at a place closer to you to watch the ceremony.
多亏了客栈老板通知我，此番才能及时赶到。这是你的奖励。¤Thanks to the innkeeper's notification, I was able to arrive in time. This is your reward.
知道就好，我们不会放过你的！¤Just so you know, we won't let you get away!
你是自己伏法还是要吃点苦头？¤Are you going to face punishment on your own or do you want to suffer a bit more?
呵呵，你先担心自己吧。\n¤Hehe, you should worry about yourself first.
神教？（老头，你知道他在说什么嘛？）¤The Ancient God Sect? (Old man, do you know what he's talking about?)
抓我？你还不够格...¤Capture me? You're not qualified enough…
刚刚冲出客栈的李天便被一道剑光击落，迅速有人现身，将其制服。¤Just as Li Tian rushed out of the inn, he was struck down by a beam of sword light. Quickly, someone appeared and subdued him.
我加入神教，受了这么多折磨，吃了这么多苦，就这么败了！！？¤I joined the Ancient God Sect, endured so much torture, suffered so much, and yet I am still defeated like this?!
血遁术，嗨，这些宵小之辈也就这点手段了。¤Blood transport skill, ha, these small fries only have this kind of trick up their sleeve.
神教？又是古神教？¤God sect? Is it the Ancient God Sect again?
多谢前辈相救。¤Thank you, senior, for saving me.
白帝楼？？！！¤White Emperor Pavilion？？！！
怎么会？¤How could this be?
莫要怪我，我也是奉命行事，受死吧。¤Don't blame me, I'm just following orders. Die.
呵呵，你先担心自己吧。¤Ha ha, worry about yourself first.
这白帝楼做事倒是滴水不漏，这周围已有人部下剑阵，{xiaozi}多学学啊。¤This White Emperor Pavilion is very careful in its affairs. There are already sword arrays set up around here. {xiaozi}, you should learn from them.
我古神教乃是衡州第一大教，你坏我好事，我们不会放过你的！¤Our Ancient God Sect is the largest sect in Hengzhou. If you bring trouble to us, we will not let you go!
我手头还有要事处理，此事你自行回白帝楼找当值执事汇报吧。¤I have other important matters to attend to at the moment. You may go back to the White Emperor Pavilion and report to the duty officer on duty there.
奉命?哪家的啊？¤What order? Whose?
小友，这次你有些冒失了，这厮已经加入古神教，颇有几分神通。¤Young friend, you were a bit reckless this time. This guy has already joined the ancient god sect and has quite a bit of divine skill.
只见李天面色痛苦，但周身泛起血雾，向远处疾驰而去。¤I saw Li Tian's face filled with pain, but blood mist was rising all around him as he rushed towards the distant horizon.
玄伶长老似乎与那金虹剑派的明河长老关系密切，是我多心了么......？¤Elder Xuanling seems to have a close relationship with Elder Minghe of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect. Am I just overthinking this...?
此番前来宁州古迹，我定要替宗门找回那柄遗失的仙剑！¤This time, I have come to the Ning Province Ancient Ruin and I am determined to retrieve the lost immortal sword for our sect!
此次前往宁州古迹需要打点的事情颇多，我便不陪道友多聊了。¤There are many things to prepare for this trip to the Ning Province Ancient Ruin, so I won't chat with my fellow daoist for too long.
小胖子，老老实实的把值钱的东西都交出来。¤Little fatty, honestly hand over all the valuable things.
（低头看看自己）我胖吗？也没有吧。¤(Looking down at myself) Am I fat? Not really.
有这等手段，却还要钓鱼上钩，这位也是....我们也走吧。¤With such abilities, yet still needing to lure the fish onto the hook, this person is quite...let's go as well.
喂，这才刚出城你们几个就等不及了？这还没出星宫地界呢。¤Hey, you guys can't wait already just after leaving the city? We haven't even entered the Star Palace's territory yet.
（捡起对方的法宝和储物袋掂了掂）霍~还挺有钱。走了啊。¤(Picking up the opponent's artifact and storage pouch, he weighed them in his hand) Wow, quite rich. Time to go.
此人多半是发现了我们吧。¤This person probably discovered us.
看来，是要爷爷我自己动手了。¤It looks like I have to do it myself, Grandfather.
说罢一团火焰激射而出，直奔对方几人。他们连反应都没有就直接灰飞烟灭了。¤After speaking, a flame shot out and flew towards the group of people. Without any reaction, they were instantly incinerated to flying smoke.
（上下掂量）不错，捡到根不错的柴火。¤(Inspecting it carefully) Not bad, I've picked up a pretty good piece of firewood.
栖云违背祖训家规，已被家主剥夺了长老的身份，禁闭于府内。希望他能好好悔过，日后能够戴罪立功。¤Qiyun went against the ancestral rules and family regulations, and has been stripped of his Elder position by the family head and imprisoned within the mansion. Hopefully, he can reflect on his past actions and make amends, and one day redeem himself.
星宫以双修之术闻名，千年前星辰尊者与广微仙子便是通过这些秘术双双突破到了化神期。¤The Star Palace is renowned for its dual cultivation techniques. A thousand years ago, the Star Ancestor and Guangwei Immortal broke through the Deity Transformation stage using these secret arts.
家主对沐心期望颇高，又怎么会便宜了冲虚那个老鬼。¤The clan leader has high expectations of Mu Xin, how could he let that old ghost Chong Xu off cheaply.
是{FirstName}小友啊，来找我有什么事？{w}{w=0.5}¤Is it young friend {FirstName}? What brings you to me? {w}{w=0.5}
这冲虚修为在金丹期停滞多年，便想效仿前人，也打上了我们林家女眷的主意。¤This Cultivator's progress has been stagnating for many years during the Golden Core stage, so they hoped to follow in the footsteps of their predecessors and have targeted the women of our Lin family.
邪修？具体是何境界？¤Cultivation? What level is it specifically?
{color=#d0380a}玄冥海{/color}近年有人类邪修布阵猎杀魂体，前辈可愿前去根除此事？¤{color=#d0380a}The Deep Black Sea{/color} has seen a rise in human demonic cultivators setting up formations to hunt down soul bodies. Would any {color=#d0380a}senior{/color} be willing to go and root out this issue?
只见一名手握神阴石、阴体极为凝实的魂体老者，正在闭目修炼。¤I see an old man with a solid soul body holding a shenyin stone, currently practicing cultivation with closed eyes.
确有一事需道友出手。¤Fellow Daoist, there is a matter that requires your assistance.
他正在闭目修炼，对往来的事物都毫不关心。¤He is currently in cultivation, closing his eyes and practicing, ignoring everything going on around him.
多谢指点，在下定会全力以赴。¤Thank you for your guidance, I will do my best.
本座对此事没有兴趣。¤I have no interest in this matter.
抱歉，未能完成你们的任务。¤Sorry, I was unable to complete your quests.
……还是不要影响他修炼了。¤...let's not disturb his cultivation.
既然如此，此事还是我等自行解决罢，劳烦前辈费心了。¤Since that's the case, we'll handle this matter ourselves. Many thanks to you, Senior, for your kind consideration.
在下{FirstName}{LastName}，为逆天造化术而来，道友可愿指点一二？¤I am {FirstName}{LastName}, here for the Defying Good Fortune technique. Fellow daoist, would you be willing to offer some guidance?
{color=#d0380a}玄冥海{/color}近年有人类邪修布阵猎杀魂体，道友可愿前去根除此事？¤{color=#d0380a}The Deep Black Sea{/color} has had humans who practice evil methods setting up formations to hunt and kill {color=#d0380a}soul bodies{/color}. Fellow Daoist, are you willing to go and eradicate this issue?
凭借此物，应该足以证明我完成了任务吧？¤With this item, shouldn't it be enough to prove that I have completed the quest?
前辈既已得到逆天造化术，这五块神阴石便归前辈所有了。¤Senior, since you have obtained the defying good fortune technique, these five shenyin stones belong to you.
你将万魂幡拿了出来。¤You took out the ten thousand soul banner.
前辈只需将此事告知岛主李司魂，便可获得逆天造化术。¤Senior only needs to inform the island owner Lee Soul about this matter, and they can gain the Defying Good Fortune technique.
前辈果然神通广大。¤Senior's divine skill is truly extensive.
{$xiaoyou}只需将此事告知岛主李司魂，便可领取逆天造化术。¤{$xiaoyou} just needs to inform the island master Lee Soul and they can receive the Defying Good Fortune Technique.
知道了。¤I understand.
他的表情没有丝毫变化，至始至终都在闭目修炼。¤His expression did not change at all, and he was practicing cultivation with closed eyes from beginning to end.
传言其首领至少有元婴后期修为。¤Rumor has it that their leader has at least reached the late nascent soul cultivation level.
邪修？具体是什么境界？¤Cultivator? What exactly is that realm?
不错¤Not bad.
道友便是无尘了？¤Fellow Daoist, is that you, Dust?
正是，敢问前辈有何指教？¤Indeed, may I ask senior for any guidance?
{$xiaoyou}既已得到逆天造化术，这五块神阴石便归{$xiaoyou}所有了。¤{$xiaoyou} has already obtained the technique of defying good fortune, so these five shenyin stones belong to {$xiaoyou}.
叨饶了，请问道友便是无尘么？¤Excuse me, may I ask if you are Fellow Daoist Dust?
凭借此物，应该足以证明一切了吧？¤With this item, should it be enough to prove everything?
这里的气息...是那只元婴期的金鹏大妖！¤The qi here... is from that nascent soul stage golden peng demon!
啊，既然此间事已了，我也该回星宫复命了，有缘再见啦。¤Ah, now that this matter is finished, I should return to the Star Palace to report. Until we meet again, if fate permits.
星铃儿说完便是驭法宝破空离去，只留你在原地发愣。¤After Star Bell finished speaking, she used her artifact to break through the sky and left, leaving you standing there in a daze.
传音符...我一般都不用那个的诶，总觉得随时能被找到不太自由。嗯，就当我欠你个人情啦，我们还是有缘再见吧，嘻嘻。¤Sound talisman...I usually don't use that, it always feels like I can be found anytime and I won't be free. Well, consider me owing you a favor then, let's meet again if we're meant to, hehe.
多谢帮忙，不然要我一个人全部解决还挺麻烦的呢。¤Thank you for your help, otherwise it would have been quite troublesome for me to solve everything alone.
侥幸而已，¤Just by chance.
嗯..总还是能让宁州再安宁一些吧。¤Hmmm... Let's try to make Ningzhou a bit more peaceful again.
请稍等，星姑娘可愿与我互在传音符中留下神识印记，留作联系用？¤Please wait, would Miss Xing be willing to leave a soul sense imprint with me on the sound talisman for future communication?
嘻嘻，宁州的同辈最强的应该就是道友你啦！¤Hehe, among the peers in Ningzhou, the strongest should be fellow daoist like you!
没想到你居然这么强，连栖云长老也不是你的对手！¤I didn't expect you to be so strong. Even Elder Qiyun isn't your match!
星姑娘不用客气，我作为宁州正道修仙者，也有责任除魔卫道。¤Miss Xing, no need to be polite. As a cultivator of the righteous path in Ningzhou, I also have the responsibility to eradicate demons and uphold justice.
哈哈哈，不过到时候，师兄我可就是你的对手了。¤Hahaha, but by then, Senior Brother, I will be your opponent.
另外，门派每三十年会举办一次{color=#d0380a}宗门大比{/color}，夺魁者不仅可以直接成为内门弟子，拜入我派任一一位长老门下修习，还能获得一枚筑基丹作为奖励。¤Additionally, the sect holds a {color=#d0380a}clan competition{/color} every thirty years. The winner not only becomes an inner disciple, but also has the opportunity to study under any elder of our sect and gains a {color=#d0380a}foundation pill{/color} as a reward.
我派外门弟子也可以学习门派的一些基础功法和法术，外门的传功长老一般都会在宗门广场，你可以先去挑选一本适合你的基础功法来修炼。¤Our outer disciples can also learn some basic techniques and spells from the sect. The instructor elders for the outer disciples are usually at the sect plaza. You can go pick a basic technique that suits you and start your cultivation.
火系功法在五行法术中最为刚猛，一旦施展开来，便是不死不休，连绵不绝的攻势。¤The fire-based technique is the most fierce in the five elements spell. Once unleashed, it is unending and relentless, with an endless barrage of attacks.
年轻人就该多去天魔眼中历练历练，好过一天天在宗门内埋头苦修。¤Young people should go experience in the Heavenly Devil's Eye more instead of burying themselves in their sects for cultivation every day.
解决掉这批劫匪后，你回头望去，却不见了那姑娘的踪迹。四下搜索无果的你，只能继续上路...¤After dealing with this group of bandits, you turned around and couldn't find the girl's whereabouts. Despite searching in all directions, you could only continue on your journey...
你实力不足自身难保，也再顾不得什么英雄救美，头也不回地逃走了...¤You don't have enough strength to protect yourself, and you don't care about hero saves beauty anymore. You just turned around and ran away without looking back...
一圈圈涟漪从光幕中心扩散开来，但光幕看起来仍然十分稳固。¤Ripples spread out in circles from the center of the light curtain, but the light curtain still looked very stable.
玄古门？¤Profound ancient sect?
血菩提！？这等天才地宝离火门每年流出的也不多吧。¤Blood Bodhi fruit!? Doesn't the Fire Gate Sect only produce a few of these geniuses' treasures every year?
可不是？\n¤Isn't that right?
嗯~我这次凑了不少灵石，再看看能不能再买一枚。¤Hmm~ I've gathered quite a lot of spirit stones this time, let's see if I can buy another one.
又是玄古门的人啊。¤Another member of the profound ancient sect.
道友最近刚刚出关吧。这玄古门的人10年前出现在坊市，出售了几枚血菩提。¤Fellow Daoist, have you just come out of seclusion? This member of the Profound Ancient Sect appeared in the marketplace 10 years ago and sold a few Blood Bodhi Fruits.
这天星城最近倒是风云际会，平日里难得一遇的血菩提和延寿丹药，最近倒是见了很多。¤Recently, there have been many occurrences in Starsky City. The rare Blood Bodhi fruit and Greater Longevity pills, which are hardly seen on ordinary days, have been popping up frequently lately.
前方的一个摊位上聚集了一群人。¤A group of people gathered around a stall up ahead.
你收敛气息，快速找了一个隐秘之处躲藏起来。不多时，便有一道白色的遁光从洞口闪过。¤You restrain your breath and quickly find a hiding place to hide. Soon, a white light flashes from the cave entrance.
这遁术并不算常见，按你的印象，此人当是来自千流岛的修士。他们功法诡异，出手果决狠辣，非常不好对付。你决定...？¤This mobility technique is not commonly seen. Based on your impression, this person should be a cultivator from Myriad Rivers Island. Their techniques are unusual, and they are ruthless and decisive in their actions. They are not easy to deal with. What will you decide to do?
你收敛气息，慢慢走进洞窟...还未等你摘下草药，突然一道劲风从背后袭来。¤You restrain your breath and slowly enter the cave... Before you could even pick the herbs, suddenly a gust of powerful wind strikes you from behind.
你虽多少有些防备，勉力避开了要害。但此人攻势凌厉，你未曾来得及运转灵气便受此创伤，已然落入下风！¤You were a little guarded, and managed to avoid the fatal blow. However, this person's attack was fierce, and before you could activate your spiritual energy, you were injured and fell into a disadvantageous position!
这样遁术并不常见，你虽不清除此人底细，但他的修为应当不弱。你决定...？¤This type of mobility isn't commonly seen. Although you're unsure of this person's background, their cultivation should be strong. You decide...?
你刚出洞窟，正准备带着草药扬长而去，一道白色的遁光就已闪到你的面前。¤You had just exited the cave and were about to leave with herbs in hand when a white streak of light suddenly appeared before you.
没想到此人行事如此果决，一言未发出手便是杀招。你大惊失色，虽勉力避开要害，但仍然受了一些轻伤。¤I didn't expect this person to act so decisively. Before a word was spoken, they used a killing move. You were shocked and managed to avoid the vital points, but still received some minor injuries.
不过你也是学艺不精，不过一{SayStcVal=929}，竟险些致你于死地。¤But you're also not skilled in the art, just one {SayStcVal=929}, almost led you to your death.
哼，这妖兽真是不长眼竟敢袭击本门弟子。¤Hmph, this spirit beast really has no eyes to dare attack the disciples of our sect.
多谢长老救命之恩。¤Thank you, elder, for saving my life.
长老教训的是。¤The elder is giving a lesson.
白帝正端坐在空地正中运功调息，见你走来，他微睁双眼，向你点点头。¤The White Emperor sat cross-legged in the center of the open space, adjusting his breath. When he saw you approaching, he slightly opened his eyes and nodded towards you.
{shidi}可有打过招呼了？¤Did you say hello to your junior fellow disciple?
哦？星宫那位宫主虽然性格乖僻令我难以理解，但不至于食言才是，应当是有自己的考量吧。¤Oh? Although the palace master of Star Palace has a strange personality that I find difficult to understand, I don't think they would go back on their word. They must have their own considerations.
只是...星凝似乎还没有来。¤However... Xing Ning doesn't seem to have arrived yet.
还是麻烦{shidi}代我跟他们打个招呼吧。¤Could you please trouble {shidi} to say hello to them on my behalf?
无尽之海危险重重，若是没有同行修士结伴，又没有情报来源，普通散修去远海猎杀海兽无异于自寻死路。¤The Endless Sea is extremely dangerous. Wandering cultivators who venture out to hunt sea beasts without companions or information sources are essentially seeking death.
（惊恐地看着你）你...你想做什么？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Terrifiedly looking at you) What...what do you want to do?
我和你没有什么可交易的。¤There's nothing we can trade.
（煞气腾腾地看着你）噢？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Glaring fiercely at you) Oh?{w}{w=0.5}
我这里没有其它值得一提的传闻了...¤I don't have any other rumors worth mentioning here...
看你的样子，应该是第一次出海吧。¤Judging from your appearance, it should be your first time going to sea.
这附近的海域似乎聚集了不少的海兽，前不久，我们才发现了一只{$name}的踪迹。¤It seems that there are many sea beasts gathered in the nearby waters. Not long ago, we just discovered the tracks of a {$name}.
我们蓬莎岛其实就是因此而成立的一个散修同盟，我们在那里交易物资与情报，组队同行，久而久之也成为了这片无尽之海中数一数二的势力。¤We, the wandering cultivators of Pongsha Island, formed an alliance for this very reason. We trade goods and intelligence, journey together in teams, and have become one of the most influential forces in the endless sea.
如果你想赚上一笔，就去碎星岛或者南崖城找找我们商会的负责人吧。¤If you want to make some money, go look for the leader of our trading guild in Shattered Star Island or South Cliff City.
你想做什么？敢对我们蓬莎岛的人动手？¤What do you want to do? Dare you lay a hand on the people of Pongsha Island?
这附近并没有发生什么特殊的事。¤Nothing special has happened in the vicinity.
最近似乎没有什么值得一提的传闻，道友有什么想知道的，不妨去蓬沙岛的{color=#d0380a}采筠阁{/color}打听一番。¤Recently, there haven't been any noteworthy rumours. Fellow daoist, if you want to know anything, you might as well inquire at the {color=#d0380a}Caegyun Pavilion{/color} on Penglai Island.
（提防地看着你）我听说过你的名字，你想做什么？{w}{w=0.5}¤(Cautiously looking at you) I've heard your name before, what do you want to do? {w}{w=0.5}
前不久，我们在这附近发现了一只{$name}的踪迹。除此以外，似乎还没有发生什么特殊的事。¤Recently, we discovered the traces of a {$name} nearby. Other than that, nothing unusual appears to have happened.
西北角那边似有一方小岛上浮，疑似是上古龙宫的残骸。有一龙族直奔而去。¤On the floating island at the northwest corner, there seemed to be remnants of the ancient dragon palace. A member of the Dragon Clan went straight towards it.
何人胆敢擅闯本座洞府！¤Who dares to trespass into my cave?!
还未等你动手，突然周天灵气翻涌，原本已经损坏的阵法又重新运转起来！¤Before you had a chance to act, the sky spirit within the surroundings suddenly surged, and the damaged array unexpectedly started functioning once more!
丹房外布有一些简单的禁制，但更多应是为了隔热与预防炸炉，不难破解。可惜的是，你什么有用的东西也没有找到。¤Outside the dan room, there are some simple restrictions, but they are mostly for insulation and preventing explosions, and are not difficult to crack. Unfortunately, you didn't find anything useful.
无需多言，今日你我之间必有一死！¤No need for words, one of us will die today!
丹房外布有一些简单的禁制，但更多应是为了隔热与预防炸炉，不难破解。你在这里找到了几颗刚刚炼制成功的丹药。¤There are some simple restrictions outside the dan room, but they are mostly for insulation and to prevent explosions. They can be easily bypassed. You found several newly crafted pills here.
{FirstName}{LastName}，竟然是你？¤{FirstName}{LastName}, is it really you?
洞府的主人还没有回来，你决定...？{w}{w=0.5}¤The master of the cave has not yet returned. What do you decide to do? {w}{w=0.5}
洞府被井然有序地分割成了几个独立的空间，药田内还种植着几株尚未采摘的灵植。¤The cave was divided into several separate spaces, each organized in a neat and orderly manner. In the herbs field, there were several spiritual plants that had yet to be harvested.
看来洞府的主人只是临时外出，并未放弃这处洞府。刚刚破除的阵法应该已经惊动了他，继续留在这里可能会遇到危险，你决定...？¤It seems that the owner of this cave is only temporarily away and has not abandoned it. The recently broken array should have alerted them, and staying here may be dangerous. What do you decide to do?
想来此处洞府已经荒废，有价值的东西也被统统带走了。你白忙活了一场，心中不免有些失落。¤It seems like this cave has already been abandoned and anything of value has been taken away. You've worked hard for nothing and can't help feeling disappointed.
练功房外布下的单独的禁制，颇为精妙。为了破开禁制花费了你不少的时间，但也算收货颇丰。¤The unique restriction placed outside of the training room is quite ingenious. You spent quite some time breaking through the restriction, but the rewards were considerable.
不同灵药的采摘方式截然不同，稍有不慎便会药性大减。你小心翼翼地将药田内种植的灵药采摘一空，花费了你不少的时间。¤The methods for harvesting different spirit herbs are completely different, and any slight mistake can greatly reduce their medicinal properties. You carefully harvested all the spirit herbs planted in the herbs field, which took you a lot of time.
没想到你竟然做出如此卑劣之事，我们之间的交情是被狗吃了么？¤I didn't expect you to do such a despicable thing. Has our friendship been eaten by dogs?
时间紧迫，一些重要的房间应该还设有单独的禁制，你决定...？¤Time is running out, some important rooms should still have separate restrictions, what do you decide...?
哼，看在我们过去的交情上，这次我便饶你一回，若还有下次，就别怪我不留情面了！¤Humph, I'll spare you this time for our past relationship, but if there's a next time, don't blame me for not showing mercy!
丹房外布有一些简单的禁制，但更多应是为了隔热与预防炸炉，不难破解。你在这里找到了一张遗落的丹方。¤There are some simple restrictions outside the dan room, but they are mostly for insulation and preventing explosions in the furnace, and they are not difficult to crack. You found a lost recipe here.
洞府被井然有序地分割成了几个独立的空间，但目光所及之处都空空如也。¤The cave was partitioned into several independent spaces in an orderly manner, but wherever the sight went, it was empty.
练功房外布下的单独的禁制，颇为精妙。为了破开禁制花费了你不少的时间，可惜你在里面什么也没有找到。¤Unfortunately, the unique restriction placed outside the training room was quite clever. You spent a lot of time breaking the restriction, but unfortunately, you found nothing inside.
练功房外布下的单独的禁制，颇为精妙。为了破开禁制花费了你不少的时间，但也算有所收获。¤The solitary restriction set up outside the training room is quite exquisite. It took you a lot of time to break the restriction, but you also gained something from it.
我方才感受到大殿中有一丝白帝的气息，便想着过来看看。¤I just sensed a trace of White Emperor's aura in the main hall, so I came over to take a look.
明山散人一边说着，竹山宗的掌门赶紧将请帖递了上去。前者随手接过，看过之后却陷入了沉思。¤While speaking, the Ming Mountain Scatterer received the invitation from the Master of the Bamboo Mountain Sect. After looking at it, he fell into contemplation.
原来如此...不过明山老祖生性恬淡，如今也不知...¤So that's how it is... However, Mingshan Patriarch has always been peaceful, now who knows...
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来贵派邀请明山前辈届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing to transition to ascension and has asked me to invite Senior Mingshan to attend the ceremony at our sect.
多谢{FirstName}{daoyou}告知。但明山老祖生性恬淡，如今也不知...¤Thank you, {FirstName}{daoyou}, for informing me. However, Ming Mountain Ancestor has always been quiet and subdued, and now I do not know...
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来贵派邀请明山道友届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is about to prepare for his transition to ascension, and specifically asked me to invite Fellow Daoist Mingshan from your sect to come and witness it.
白帝即将准备渡劫飞升，特意让我来邀请明山师祖届时前往观礼。¤The White Emperor is preparing for the Transition to Ascension and has specifically invited Master Mingshan to attend the ceremony.
你瞅准时机直接冲入其中，一阵天旋地转之后，出现在一处洞窟之中。¤When you spotted the opportunity, you charged straight into it and after a dizzying twirl, you appeared in a cave.
半空中起伏一阵空间波动。¤There was a wave of spatial fluctuations in mid-air.
嗯？这似乎是通往一处前人洞府。\n¤Hmm? This seems to lead to a former cave.
实在对不住，道友。我还有要事同族中商议，暂时不与你多聊了。¤I'm really sorry, fellow daoist. I still have important matters to discuss with my clan, so I can't chat with you for long now.
这魔修竟如此明目张胆到宁州撒野，真是岂有此理！¤This demonic cultivator is actually causing chaos in Ningzhou so brazenly, it's truly unreasonable!
再来练两手？¤Practice a little more?
你要战，那便战。¤If you want to fight, then fight.
地魔锋锐的尖爪带着阴风袭向你，正当你以为自己将命丧此地之时突生异变。¤The sharp claws of the earth demon came towards you with a cold wind, just when you thought you were about to meet your end, a sudden change occurred.
多亏贵宗力挽狂澜，助我等灭杀地魔！¤Thanks to your sect's help in causing a frenzy, we were able to kill the earth demon!
另一旁的炎萧与萧千绝从天而降，借冲力将手中法宝用力撞向地魔头颅。一阵令人牙酸的尖利摩擦声过后那地魔头骨终于支撑不住寸寸开裂！¤On the other side, Yan Xiao and Xiao Qianjue descended from the sky and, using the force of their charge, violently struck the artifact in their hands against the head of the earth demon. After a grating sound that made one's teeth ache, the skull of the earth demon finally couldn't hold up and cracked inch by inch!
我们商议过后一致同意奖赏{FirstName}{shidi}一颗聚顶丹，其它于此战中出力的弟子归宗后均能得到己宗奖赏。¤After discussion, we unanimously agreed to reward {FirstName}{shidi} with a Core Condensing Pill. Other disciples who contributed in this battle will receive rewards from their respective sects upon returning.
几位宗门领头弟子汇集一旁，似是共同商议着什么。¤A few leading disciples from various sects gathered on the side, seemingly discussing something together.
临行前本宗长老曾将传音玉符交予我，叮嘱若试炼生变可与宗门沟通。如今你我一同消灭地魔，灵力多有消耗，再于此地停留恐生意外。¤Before leaving, the elder of our sect gave me a communication jade talisman and instructed me that if any changes occurred during the trial, I could contact the sect. Now that we have eliminated the earth demon together, our spiritual energy has been greatly consumed. It is better not to stay here for long to avoid any accidents.
而后跟上的弟子来势汹汹，趁此机会刀刀劈向地魔要害，在接连不断的攻击下魔物轰然倒地，眼看不活了。¤Then the disciples who followed closely behind attacked fiercely, taking the opportunity to strike the earth demon's vital points. Under the continuous strikes, the spirit beast fell to the ground with a loud crash, seemingly lifeless.
大家最为关心的地魔战利品我等已分配完毕，{FirstName}{LastName}{shidi}这次出力最大，功不可没。¤Everyone's most concerned about the spoils of the earth demon battle, which we've already allocated. {FirstName}{LastName}{shidi} contributed the most this time and deserves all the credit.
外界各宗长老经商榷决定协力提前开启传送，结束本次试炼。再过不久诸位便可回到宁州，请做好准备。¤The elders of various sects outside have negotiated and decided to work together to start the teleportation ahead of schedule, ending this trial. Soon, everyone will be able to return to Ningzhou, so be prepared.
在众人的合力攻击下，地魔终于支撑不住，轰然倒地，眼看便是不活了。¤Under the combined strikes of everyone, the earth demon finally couldn't hold on and fell to the ground with a loud boom, seemingly lifeless.
大家最为关心的地魔战利品我等已分配完毕，于此战中出力的弟子归宗后均能得到己宗奖赏。¤The spoils of the earth demon battle that everyone is most concerned about have already been distributed, and the disciples who contributed in this battle will receive rewards from their own sect after returning.
你以一己之力竟生生压制住了地魔，一旁的炎萧与李青麟等人也趁势配合你一起攻击魔物。¤With your own strength, you actually managed to suppress the Earth Demon. Yan Xiao and Li Qinglin, who were standing on the side, used that opportunity to collaborate with you and strike the Spirit Beasts.
休得伤人！¤Do not harm anyone!
你听着大家的欢呼声，不由地长出了一口气。¤You couldn't help but let out a sigh as you listened to everyone's cheers.
只见李青麟唤出数道藤蔓捆住了你，将你向后一扯，堪堪躲过魔物的攻击。¤I saw Li Qinglin summon several vines and tie you up, pulling you backwards in time to dodge the spirit beast's strikes.
你心有戚戚地靠在石壁上听着众人欢呼，只恨自己成为此行拖累。¤You leaned on the stone wall with a heavy heart, listening to the crowds cheering, only hating yourself for becoming a burden on this journey.
这是一个{$Var1}的秘境，你随着灵气流动的方向很快找到了{$Var2}。¤This is a hidden realm of {$Var1}, and following the flow of spiritual energy, you quickly find {$Var2}.
还是尽快返回宗门，将这{$Var2}交给掌门为好。¤It's best to return to the sect as soon as possible and hand over this {$Var2} to the master.
没想到化尘教竟混入了魔门卧底...如此看来我派也需要仔细核查了。¤Unexpectedly, the Shifting Sand Sect has infiltrated the Demon Sect... It seems that my sect also needs to carefully investigate.
慕容颖正忙着与宗门内的修士交流，似乎没有注意到你的到来。¤Murong Ying is currently busy communicating with the cultivators from within her sect, and does not seem to have noticed your arrival.
不过接下来我要传你的{$shentong}乃人阶上品神通，唯有对{$xi}系的大道感悟达到{color=#d0380a}初窥门径{/color}方可领悟。¤However, next I will pass on to you a divine skill that is of mortal rank, but in order to comprehend it, you must have a first glimpse of the dao of {$xi} and achieve enlightenment in the great dao sense. {color=#d0380a}Only then can you truly master it.{/color}
先释放手印，便可以触发后续神通的五行连击效果。若能掌握好这一点，撑过傀儡的攻击也就不难了。¤First release the hand seal, then you can trigger the following divine skills' combo strike effect of the five elements. If you can master this point, it won't be difficult to withstand the puppet's attacks.
嗯，看来你掌握的不错，功力也是大有长进。¤Well, it looks like you have a good grasp on things, and your skills have definitely improved.
它还是少见的{color=#d0380a}双属性{/color}神通，所以能够灵活触发两种不同的连击效果，妙用无穷。你且收下，好好回去领悟吧。¤It is also a rare {color=#d0380a}dual attribute{/color} divine skill, so it can flexibly trigger two different combo strike effects, with endless possibilities. Take it and go back to enlighten yourself.
而另一边，琚运琦竟硬生生的从公孙府众人布下的阵法中冲了出去。¤On the other side, Ju Yunqi actually forcefully rushed out of the array set by the people of Gongsun House.
你没能拦下赤目老祖，他化作一道血色的遁光，消失不见了。¤You were unable to stop the Venerable Scarlet Eye. He transformed into a blood-red light and vanished without a trace.
尽管底牌尽出，赤目老祖还是没能从你手下逃出。¤Despite using all his trump cards, Venerable Scarlet Eye still couldn't escape your grasp.
这小子体内的气息，绝非正道，动手先拿下他。¤The aura in this child's body is definitely not from the righteous path. Take him down first.
（不好，此人回答滴水不漏，观其神色也没有破绽）¤(Not good, this person's answers are without a leak and there is no flaw in their expression.)
近日来你对倪家和白帝楼的情况很关心嘛？¤Do you care about the recent situation with the Ni family and White Emperor Pavilion?
（老头，帮我分辨一下他到底有没有问题。）¤(Old man, help me identify whether he has any problems or not.)
李天面色一变¤Li Tian's expression changed suddenly.
{FirstName}{gongzi}，我还有事，可能要先告辞了。¤{FirstName} gongzi, I still have some matters to attend to. I may need to take my leave first.
听闻，李兄今日修为大进，特来拜会。¤I have heard that Brother Li made great progress in cultivation today, so I came to pay my respects.
哈哈哈，本届魁首如此抬爱，在下自当奉陪。¤Hahaha, as the current leader, I am honored. I will accompany you.
请进。\n¤Please come in.
这小子体内的气息，和那墨居仁出自同源，动手先拿下他。¤Take down this kid first, his qi is similar to that of Mo Juren.
哎，李兄此番相谈甚欢，再多饮几杯吧。¤Hey, brother Li, we've had a great conversation. Have a few more drinks.
白帝楼，乃是天下剑修圣地，我自然也是向往的。¤The White Emperor Pavilion is the holy land for sword cultivators in the world. It is a place that I naturally long for.
嗯？古神教？那就没错了。\n¤Hmm? Ancient God Sect? That's correct then.
李天，是我。有一位道友想要结交你，特来拜访。¤Li Tian, that would be me. A fellow daoist wished to make your acquaintance and has come to pay a visit.
《吐纳功法》，不过是人阶下品的功法，你这个年纪能以此修炼到炼气巅峰，也是天赋异禀了。¤The 《exhalation technique》 is just a mortal level technique. It's impressive that you were able to cultivate to the peak of qi refining at your age. You truly have exceptional talent.
哦？不装了？¤Oh? Not pretending anymore?
...我不过是在一处秘境之中有所收获，比不得道友你作为天之骄子，更是夺得本届魁首。¤...I just gained something from a secret realm, not comparable to you, fellow daoist, who as the pride of the heavens, even won the top spot of this year's selection.
酒过三巡、饭过五味¤After three rounds of drinks and a meal of five flavors.
此时他面露痛苦，一丝诡异的气息从他体内溢出，只见他快速的服用了一枚丹药。之后面色狰狞的对你说。¤At this moment, he had a pained expression, with an overflowing strange energy emanating from his body. He quickly consumed a pill and his expression turned fierce as he spoke to you.
拿命来！！¤Come and take my life!!
{FirstName}{gongzi}，你知道吗？自从种下了这魔神蛊，我修为一日千里，但却也受尽折磨，就是为了把你们这些天之骄子踩在脚下！！¤{FirstName} gongzi, do you know? Since I planted this devil god Gu, my cultivation has improved rapidly, but I have also suffered greatly. It's all so that I can crush you and other geniuses under my feet!!
{xiaozi}，叫你冒冒失失的，这下下不来台了吧。¤{xiaozi}, because of your recklessness, you won't be able to come down from the stage now.
没想到恶饕这老东西当年夺了本座精血，竟然把自己弄成了这副人不人鬼不鬼的样子。¤I didn't expect that old glutton to have taken my essence blood back then, and actually turned himself into such a half-human, half-ghost appearance.
这白帝也算是一代天骄，真是可惜了...¤This White Emperor can be considered a talented individual. Unfortunately...
你沉思片刻，给公孙季留下一符传音后，才向九嶷山赶去...¤After pondering for a moment, you left a mark transmitting a message to Gongsun Ji before heading towards Jiuyi Mountain...
此事还需先告知公孙兄知晓...¤This matter needs to be first informed to Brother Gongsun...
重新回到这里，真是恍若隔世...¤Returning back here, it feels like a world away...
魏老，你之前所说的秘阁在何处？¤Old Wei, where is the Secret Pavilion you mentioned before?
回想当年，真是恍若隔世...¤Recalling the past, it's like a lifetime ago...
看那里的铸剑阁，经过那里再向前继续走便是秘阁的入口了。¤Look towards the Sword Casting Pavilion over there, and after passing by there, continue forward to find the entrance to the Secret Pavilion.
过去这么多年，这里倒是和当年来时没有太大的变化。¤In the past so many years, there hasn't been too much change here compared to when I first came.
虽是许久无人维护，但是你仍可以看出此地是洞府主人的丹房。¤Although it has been abandoned for a long time, you can still tell that this place is the owner's cave and dan room.
你发现一尊还在运转的丹炉，里面保有炼制完成但尚未取出的丹药。¤You discover an alchemy furnace still in operation, containing completed but yet to be extracted elixirs.
你发现一尊完好无损的丹炉。¤You discover an intact alchemy furnace.
你在角落发现一张完好无损的丹方。¤You found a perfectly preserved recipe in the corner.
{xiaozi}，以后我老人家罩着你。¤{xiaozi}, I'll look after you when I'm old.
这里暂时没有需要你做的事。¤There is nothing you need to do here for the time being.
你上前劈手夺过三眼灵猴护到自己身后，血煞老怪猝不及防受了一击，怪叫一声向后跳开几丈远。¤You quickly reached out and grabbed the Three-Eyed Spirit Monkey, shielding it behind your body. The Bloodthirsty Old Monster was caught off guard and received a blow, letting out a scream as they jumped back several meters.
哼，你禾山道在宁州作威作福，欺害无辜，如今是该付出代价了！¤Hmph, your Mt. Harvest Sect has been acting lawlessly in Ningzhou, oppressing the innocent. Now it's time to pay the price!
你在一旁看他们张罗了多时，也没见有什么猿类的灵兽跑出来，倒是一旁的禾山道修士已经有几个坚持不住，开始减弱灵力屏障，暗自偷起懒来。¤As you watched them busy themselves for a while, you didn't see any spirit beasts of the ape kind come out, but some of the Mt. Harvest Sect cultivators beside you couldn't hold on any longer and began to weaken their spiritual energy shields, secretly slacking off.
他面色又惊又疑，似是在思忖你何以能从他手中夺去那三眼灵猴。很快地，他的脸色阴鸷了几分，看来是猜到了你的来意。¤His face was both surprised and suspicious, as if he was pondering how you were able to take the three-eyed spirit monkey from his hands. Soon, his expression became more sullen, indicating that he had guessed your intentions.
血煞老怪一副洋洋得意的表情，想来是已把三眼灵猴的妖丹视为囊中之物。你颇有不爽，决定...¤Blood-Devil Old Monster had a proud expression on his face, he must have seen the demon core of the three-eyed spirit monkey as something he could easily obtain. You felt annoyed and decided to...
你见此也想停下运转的灵力屏障，熟料一道金光闪过，接踵而至的便是重物撞击的声音。¤As you see this, the spiritual shield that makes you want to stop working, suddenly a golden light flashes by, followed by the sound of a heavy impact.
有了你的妖丹，我突破元婴有望了！¤With your demon core, I have a chance to breakthrough to nascent soul!
但你又岂能让他如愿？¤But how can you let him have his way?
不消多时，那光团便被血煞老怪攫入手中。¤Before long, the ball of light was grabbed by the Blood Demon.
灵猴被后方的手拎起，发出一连串愤怒的叫声。而那手的主人，正是禾山道的大首领——血煞老怪。¤The spiritual monkey was lifted up by a hand from behind, letting out a series of angry cries. And the owner of that hand is the leader of the Mt. Harvest Sect Bloodthirsty Old Devil.
哈哈哈哈，这下看你往哪逃！¤Hahaha, now let's see where you can escape!
它光滑柔顺的毛发，隐隐能看到浅淡的金光在毛发中流转。额正中的灵目也炯炯有神，灵慧的眸光似有实型般令人生畏。¤Its smooth and supple fur was faintly glowing with golden light that swirled within the strands. Its spiritual eyes in the center of its forehead were shining brightly with a sharp and intimidating gaze, as if emitting a tangible aura of wisdom.
禾山道修士的灵力屏障对那光团而言虽弱，却也阻拦了它几息时间，血煞老怪自然不会放弃这样的机会，脚下法宝嗡嗡作响，显然是运足了灵气去追那东西。¤The spiritual shield of the Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator offered only weak resistance to the orb of light, but it still bought them a few moments. Blood Demon Old Monster wasn't about to pass up this opportunity and activated his artifact, using all his spiritual energy to chase after the orb.
你有些好奇，运起遁术悄悄跟了上去。¤You were curious, so you used your mobility technique to quietly follow behind.
你屏息观察，约有一炷香后血煞老怪追着一团金色光影飞快掠过，那金色光影直接穿破禾山道修士凝成的灵力屏障，窜向山林深处。¤You observe in silence, about the time it takes for an incense stick to burn, Blood Demon Old Monster chases after a cluster of golden light that quickly dashes by. The golden light breaks through the spiritual energy shield formed by the Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator, and disappears into the depths of the mountain forest.
你定睛一看，一只头生三目的猴子跌落在地，想来便是那禾山道修士口中的三眼灵猴了。¤When you focus your gaze, you see a monkey with three eyes falling to the ground. It must be the three-eyed spirit monkey that the mt. harvest sect cultivator mentioned earlier.
它仿佛还残留着对你的印象，毛绒绒的猴脸上一副恳求的神情，似乎是在乞求你放它离开。¤It seems to still hold an impression of you, the furry monkey face has a pleading expression, as if begging you to let it go.
来幽谷捉这三眼灵猴，恐怕也是为结婴觅一份机缘。¤To capture the three-eyed spirit monkey in the valley, it is likely that they are searching for a nascent opportunity.
你定睛一看，一只头生三目的猴子跌落在地。它光滑柔顺的毛发，隐隐能看到浅淡的金光在毛发中流转。额正中的灵目也炯炯有神，灵慧的眸光似有实型般令人生畏。¤You focus your gaze and see a monkey with three eyes falling to the ground. Its smooth and supple fur has a faint golden light flowing within. The divine pupil in the center of its forehead is sharp and intelligent, and its gaze seems to possess a tangible presence that inspires fear.
你依稀记得，离开禾山道时他还是精神矍铄的老头，如今竟面色蜡黄，一副油尽灯枯之相。¤You vaguely remember that when you left the Mt. Harvest Sect, he was still a vigorous old man, but now he looks pallid and feeble, like a lamp that has run out of oil.
吱吱——¤Squeak——
多谢大哥照拂，我定会仔细那畜生！¤Thank you, big brother, for taking care of me. I will definitely deal with that beast carefully!
{xiaozi}何故三番两次隐藏修为来我禾山道撒野？¤{xiaozi}, why do you repeatedly hide your cultivation and come to our Mt. Harvest Sect to cause trouble?
得了你的承诺，那禾山道修士放心地前去指挥其他修士了。¤Having received your promise, the Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator went to command other cultivators with ease.
你的灵力屏障发出砰砰的巨大响声，随即一个棕褐色的毛团滚落地面。¤Your spiritual power shield made a loud banging sound and a brown furry ball rolled to the ground.
{xiaozi}何故与我禾山道作对？¤{xiaozi}, why are you against my Mt. Harvest Sect?
别说大哥不照顾你，我给你挑这个地方最省事了，就算偷偷懒别人也看不见什么...不过你可别太懈怠，万一那猴子真从你这儿跑了我俩可都完了。¤Don't say that your big brother isn't taking care of you. I chose this place for you because it's the easiest. Even if you secretly slack off, no one will see it... But don't be too lazy, if that monkey really escapes from you, we will both be done for.
你{xiaozi}做得不错，今日捉捕三眼灵猴之事多亏有你助力，待本座神功大成，定少不了你的好处！¤You did well, {xiaozi}. Thanks to your help, we were able to capture the three-eyed spirit monkey today. When my divine power is at its peak, I will not forget your contribution and reward you accordingly!
吱吱！吱吱！¤Squeak! Squeak!
多年不见，它原本就光滑锃亮的皮毛愈发柔顺，隐隐能看到浅淡的金光在毛发中流转。额正中的灵目也愈发有神，炯炯的眸光似有实型般令人生畏。¤After not seeing it for many years, its originally smooth and shiny fur has become even more soft and supple, with a faint golden light flowing through its hair. The spirit eyes in the center of its forehead also became more divine, and its piercing gaze seems to be solid and intimidating.
禾山道修士将你带进一个角落，压低声音偷偷和你说道。¤The cultivator from Mt. Harvest Sect takes you to a corner, lowering their voice and secretly saying to you.
你心神一动，正要有所行动之时一只大手从后方伸出，一把抓住了三眼灵猴的后颈皮。¤Just as you were about to take action, a big hand reached out from behind and grabbed the back of the Three-eyed Spirit Monkey's neck.
你顾虑颇多，并没有当场发作。那血煞老怪拎起灵猴扬长而去，只剩下累得东倒西歪的禾山道修士。¤You had many concerns but did not act impulsively. The Blood Demon, carrying the Spirit Monkey, left while only the exhausted Mt. Harvest Sect cultivator was left staggering around.
你定睛一看，原来是先前在幽谷追逐过的那只三眼灵猴。¤You take a closer look and realize it is the three-eyed spirit monkey that you had chased in the valley before.
尽管此阵相当高明，但以你现在对阵道的理解，仅花了些时间便破去了这阵法。¤Despite the complexity of this array, with your current understanding of array dao, it only took a bit of time to break through it.
此阵相当高明，以你现在对阵道的理解尚不能破阵。¤This array is quite sophisticated, and your current understanding of array dao is not enough to break formation.
胜常人所不能胜，心性坚忍，求道之心坚定，不错。¤Victorious over what ordinary people cannot conquer, with strong perseverance and an unwavering heart in seeking the path, it is exceptional.
罢了，既然你不是魔修，那我便不与你再追究此事...你好自为之吧。¤Never mind, since you are not a devil cultivator, I will not investigate this matter with you anymore... take care of yourself.
杀死金大勇后，你虽有心继续探查，但奈何线索已断，只好作罢。¤After killing Jin Dayong, although you had the intention to continue investigating, unfortunately the clues had been cut off, so you could only give up.
即便你不是魔修，但既然对我动了杀心，我便留你不得，这是你咎由自取。¤Even if you are not a demonic cultivator, since you harbored murderous intent towards me, I will not let you go. This is self-inflicted.
放走金大勇后，你虽有心继续探查，但奈何线索已断，只好作罢。¤After letting Jin Dayong go, although you had the intention to continue investigating, the clues had already been cut off, so you could only give up.
我进宁王府本就为求荣华富贵，我怀恨在心，这才一时鬼迷心窍......¤I entered the Ning King's Manor originally seeking power and wealth. With hatred in my heart, I was temporarily possessed by a moment of madness...
我若是魔修，又岂会被你打成这样...¤If I were a demonic cultivator, how could you have beaten me like this...
你这人实在无理取闹，我三番五次辩白怎么死活听不进耳？¤You are being completely unreasonable, no matter how many times I try to explain, you refuse to listen.
哼，若不是你，现在坐上宁王府供奉之位的人就是我了...¤Hmph, if it weren't for you, I would be the guest elder sitting in the Ning King's Manor right now...
原来那日在城中杀人的魔修并不是他，是我误会了...现在该拿他怎么办呢？¤Turns out the demonic cultivator who killed someone in the city that day wasn't him, I misunderstood... What should I do with him now?
......你真不是魔修？¤Are you really not a demon cultivator?
至于那日所遇到的魔修，你虽有心继续探查，但奈何线索已断，只好作罢。¤As for the demonic cultivator you encountered that day, although you have the intention to continue investigating, the clues have already been cut off, so you can only give up.
哎...你如此下场倒也提醒了我。¤Ah... your current situation has also reminded me.
那你去中草阁买草药究竟是......？¤So, are you going to the Chinese herb pavilion to buy herbs?
为了追求所谓的荣华富贵，失了本心，你今后的仙途恐怕也就到底为止了...¤In pursuit of so-called wealth and glory, you have lost your true self. I'm afraid your path to immortality will come to an end.
你与我交手两次，何时看我用过魔门功法？¤When have you seen me use the demonic technique in our two battles?
你一剑刺穿了金大勇的胸膛，他带着愤恨的眼神缓缓倒在了地上...¤You pierced Jin Dayong's chest with your sword, and he slowly fell to the ground with a look of resentment in his eyes.
为了追求所谓的荣华富贵，失了本心，那今后的仙途恐怕也就到底为止了。¤In order to pursue the so-called fame and fortune, I have lost my true self. I am afraid my path to immortality will come to an end.
多行不义必自毙，交代你背后之人的阴谋，我给你个痛快。¤Those who commit many injustices will inevitably bring about their own downfall. If you reveal the conspiracies of those behind you, I will do more than my fair share of injustice to give you a swift and satisfying end.
放走金大勇后，你心有所感，趁自己还没有在王府的安逸生活中迷失了道心，还是尽早远离这是非之地吧...¤After letting Jin Dayong go, you had a feeling in your heart. It's better to leave this troubled land as soon as possible before you lose your Dao heart in the comfortable life of the royal palace...
我还以为是谁呢？原来是{FirstName}{LastName}，走开走开，别妨碍我发财。¤I thought it was someone else. So it's {FirstName}{LastName}. Go away, don't obstruct me from getting wealthy.
{size=31}只是照顾些面子罢了，他那些心思我还能不知道？{/size}¤{size=31}It's just a matter of saving face, I know exactly what he's thinking.{/size}
{size=31}哼，上次若不是被天魔道骗回中州，哪轮得到那些浑蛋魔修在这闹腾。{/size}¤{size=31}Hmph, if I hadn't been tricked by the Heavenly Demon Cult and sent back to Ningzhou last time, those damn demonic cultivators wouldn't have a chance to cause trouble here. {/size}
辛苦{FirstName}前辈，我这边还众多宗门杂事要处理，便不相送了。¤Senior {FirstName}, thank you for your hard work. I still have several sect matters to attend to, so I won't send you off.
道友客气了。¤Fellow daoist, don't be so polite.
{size=31}嗯。道友此番前来是为了...？{/size}¤{size=31}Hmm. Fellow Daoist, what brings you here this time?{/size}
师祖？¤Master?
{vpunch=10,0.5}{size=33}等，等等！{/size}¤Wait, wait!{/size}
辛苦{FirstName}道友，我这边还众多宗门杂事要处理，便不相送了。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, I appreciate your efforts. However, I have many sect matters to attend to and cannot accompany you.
{size=31}好你个凌老头，竟还有这等雄心。{/size}¤{size=31}You old Ling, you still have such great ambitions. {/size}
白帝前辈即将准备渡劫飞升，特让我来贵派邀请混元子前辈届时前往观礼。¤Senior White Emperor is preparing for transition to ascension and has asked me to invite Senior Primordial Child to attend the ceremony at your sect.
师祖，白帝前辈应该是有深意。¤Master, there must be a deeper meaning behind referring to Senior White Emperor.
{FirstName}前辈...混元子师祖他就是这脾气...还请多担待。¤{FirstName} Senior... The temper of Master Primordial Child, his ancestor, is just like this... Please bear with him.
{size=31}呵，不就是飞升观礼嘛，直接用传音符告诉我不就行了，竟还特意让道友跑上一趟。{/size}¤{size=31}Ha, isn't it just attending the Ascension Ceremony? You could have just used a sound talisman to inform me. Instead, you made your fellow daoist come all the way here.{/size}
未等你和葛白袍再说什么，混元子便已是施展遁术急冲冲地离开了大殿。¤Before you and Ge Baipao could say anything more, the Primordial Child had already used his mobility technique to hurriedly leave the hall.
{size=31}不过白袍他们也确实不争气，还是要多谢道友啊。{/size}¤{size=31}However, the white-robed fellows really didn't live up to expectations. Thank you, fellow daoist. {/size}
{size=31}稍后再说，我得亲自去一趟白帝楼。{/size}¤{size=31}I'll talk later, I have to personally go to the White Emperor Pavilion.{/size}
{FirstName}道友，这位则是我玄道宗的混元子师祖，宁州这边主要是由他老人家负责。¤{FirstName} fellow daoist, this here is the primordial child ancestor of my Xuan Dao Sect, who is mainly in charge of things in Ningzhou.
大殿正中，除恭敬地立于偏位的葛白袍外，另有一位看似普通却普通得过分了些的修士坐于大殿正首。¤In the center of the main hall, aside from Ge Bai Pao standing respectfully in a side position, there was another cultivator who appeared to be ordinary but overly so, sitting at the head of the hall.
{size=31}呵，不就是飞升观礼嘛，直接用传音符告诉我不就行了，竟还特意遣人将请帖送上门来。{/size}¤{size=31}Ah, it's just an invitation to the ascension ceremony. You could have just used sound talismans to let me know instead of sending someone to deliver a physical invitation to my doorstep. {/size}
师祖，这位便是上次救玄道宗于水火之中的道友。¤Master, this is the fellow daoist who saved Xuan Dao Sect from the blaze. 
{size=31}嗯。凌老头派你来是有何事？{/size}¤{size=31}Hmm. Did Ling Lao send you for something?{/size}
白帝师兄即将准备渡劫飞升，特让我来贵派邀请道友届时前往观礼。¤Senior Brother White Emperor is preparing to transition to ascension and has asked me to invite fellow daoists to attend and observe the tribulation.
无妨，那我便先告辞了。¤It doesn't matter, then I will take my leave first.
{FirstName}道友...混元子师祖他就是这脾气...还请多担待。¤{FirstName} fellow daoist... Primordial Child's master, he's just like this... please bear with him.
{size=31}不过白袍他们也确实不争气，多谢小友了。{/size}¤{size=31}However, those in the white robes really were not competent. Thank you, young friend. {/size}
前辈客气了。¤Senior, please don't be polite.
师祖，这位便是上次救玄道宗于水火之中的前辈。¤Master, this is the senior who rescued Xuan Dao Sect from the water and fire last time.
{FirstName}前辈，这位则是我玄道宗的混元子师祖，宁州这边主要是由他老人家负责。¤Senior {FirstName}, this is the Primordial Child Grandmaster of my Xuan Dao Sect, who is mainly in charge of Ningzhou.
无尽海渊的灵气乱流似乎比往日更加猛烈了...¤The spiritual energy turbulence of the Endless Abyss seems to be even more violent than usual...
不错，如今阵基被毁，在这无尽海渊之中恐怕再也找不到一处灵气像这样稳定的修炼宝地了。¤Not bad, now that the formation base has been destroyed, it is probably impossible to find another cultivation land with such stable spiritual energies within the endless abyss.
深海章鱼在这无尽之海中虽然数量众多，但数万年来唯有九幽能够突破至化神期，靠的应该就是这神奇的聚灵阵法。¤Although there are numerous deepsea octopuses in the endless sea, only Nine Yin has been able to break through to the deity transformation stage for tens of thousands of years, relying on this miraculous gathering spirit array.
{FirstName}妹妹，我看你资质不错，不知道对星宫的秘术有没有兴趣？¤{FirstName} sister, I can see that you have a good aptitude. Are you interested in the secret arts of the Star Palace?
竟是花茶？真是少见。¤Is it really flower tea? That's rare.
哦？我还以为林家的客人多厉害，结果就只是个英杰会亚军啊，呵呵。¤Oh? I thought the guests of Lin family were very powerful, turns out you're just a runner-up of the Young Hero's Tournament, haha.
常人只道“人面桃花相映红”，却不知这雨后粉梅不仅花如笑靥，更有暗香浮动，摄人心魄。¤Ordinary people think that peach blossoms reflect red on the faces of people, but they don't know that this post-rain pink plum not only has flowers like a smiling face, but also has a hidden fragrance that captivates the heart and soul.
{FirstName}道友，我去为王道友取茶具，失陪一会。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, I'm going to fetch tea utensils for Fellow Daoist Wang. Please excuse me for a moment.
好在林沐雪及时带着茶具回到花园，王登才重新把注意力转移到林沐雪身上。¤Fortunately, Lin Muxue returned to the garden with tea equipment just in time, and Wang Deng's attention shifted back to her.
林沐雪再想说什么时，一位看似儒雅的修士闯入亭中。¤As Lin Muxue was about to say something, a seemingly refined cultivator barged into the pavilion.
妹妹心动了吧，嘿嘿，哥哥今日就让你开开眼界。¤Sister, are you moved? Hehe, let brother broaden your horizons today.
见过王前辈。¤I have met Senior Wang.
你我不过是初见，王前辈请自重。¤We have only just met, Senior Wang, please behave yourself.
照往常规律所推算，今日便应当是有灵雨了。¤According to the usual rules of calculation, there should be spirit rain today.
这位是上一届英杰会冠军得主{FirstName}道友。{FirstName}道友，这位是星宫筑基后期修士王道友。¤This is {FirstName}, the previous champion of the Young Hero's Tournament. {FirstName}, this is Wang, a Cultivator in the late Foundation Establishment stage from the Star Palace.
不错嘛，刚参加完英杰会就筑基了，不会是为区区筑基丹特意压制境界了吧？¤Not bad. You just participated in the young hero's tournament and already achieved foundation building. Could it be that you purposely suppressed your realm for the sake of the foundation pill?
不过是区区英杰会冠军，凭此就想攀附林家这棵大树？¤Is it just because he's the young hero's champion that he wants to attach himself to the Lin family?
林沐雪闻言也是掩嘴轻笑，旋即将话题转到之前你与林沐心在英杰会的激斗上。¤Upon hearing this, Lin Muxue also giggled and then shifted the topic to your fierce battle with Lin Muxin during the Young Hero's Tournament.
哼，雪儿刚才竟然为了你斥责我，还想让我信你的鬼话？¤Hmph, little Snow just scolded me for your sake earlier. Do you really think I will believe your nonsense?
哼，本看你有几分姿...仙缘，想要指点你一番，没想到竟是如此不识好歹。¤Hmph, I thought you had some talent... Xian Yuan. I wanted to give you some guidance, but it turns out you don't know what's good for you.
眼下四周静谧，只闻灵雨淅沥，又见雪梅染粉，大有疏雨过境，虹唤梅醒之意。¤Currently, the surroundings are quiet, with only the sound of the gentle rain and snow-covered plum blossoms. It seems like a great rain has passed through the area, and a rainbow heralds the awakening of the plum blossoms.
林沐雪见到来者时眉头略微一皱，但也仅是持续刹那而已，甚至让你怀疑自己是否有看错。¤When Lin Muxue saw the visitor, her eyebrows slightly furrowed for a moment, but it was just a fleeting reaction that made you doubt if you saw it correctly.
辛苦雪儿了。¤Xue'er worked hard.
嘁，我王登就这么个性子，请多包涵。¤Tsk, this is just my personality, Wang Deng. Please bear with me.
不用担心，我和林姑娘只是初识而已。¤Don't worry, my acquaintance with Miss Lin is just the beginning.
林沐雪见此也只是轻叹一口气，一副司空见惯的样子。显然这王登已经不是第一次在女性修士面前表现得如此不得体。¤Lin Muxue sighed lightly when she saw this, looking quite used to Sikong's behavior. It was obvious that Wang Deng had already acted inappropriately in front of female cultivators before.
还请王道友称呼我为林道友。¤Please refer to me as Daoist Lin, Wang fellow daoist.
早就听说公孙道友阵法上的造诣超群，只是没想到他还深谙诗赋，当真令人佩服。¤I have long heard of fellow daoist Gongsun's unparalleled mastery in array formations, but I never thought that he was also well-versed in poetry. Truly admirable.
你绘声绘色地向林沐雪讲述，后者则是听得聚精会神。待你讲到惊险部分时，她也是低声惊呼，一副担心的样子。¤You vividly told Lin Muxue the story, and she listened attentively. When you reached the thrilling parts, she also gasped in a low voice, looking worried.
道友且看眼前的灵木。¤Fellow Daoist, please take a look at the spiritual wood in front of us.
{FirstName}道友是我林府的贵客，还请王道友礼貌些。¤Fellow daoist {FirstName} is an esteemed guest of our Lin House. Please show some courtesy, fellow daoist Wang.
你接过林沐雪递来的茶盏，道谢过后浅饮一口。不同于常见茶类伴着微苦的清香，而是一种淡淡的馨香在你口中萦绕不散，不但鲜灵更是回味十足。¤You take the teacup that Lin Muxue hands to you, and thank her before taking a sip. Unlike common teas that have a slightly bitter fragrance, it is a delicate aroma that lingers in your mouth, not only refreshing, but also leaving a lasting aftertaste.
只要你叫我一声好哥哥，就让你好好了解下，嘿嘿嘿。¤As long as you call me 'good brother', I'll let you get to know me better, hehehe.
好的，林姑娘不必担心我。¤Alright, Miss Lin, you don't have to worry about me.
早就听说星宫的双修秘术天下无双，没想到今日竟能得以一见。¤I have long heard that the dual cultivation secret technique of the Star Palace is unrivaled in the world. I never thought that I would be able to witness it today.
至于你小子，离我家雪儿远一点，她可是要与我王登结为道侣，岂是你可以染指的。¤As for you, stay away from my Little Snow. She's going to become my dao companion and the result, Wang Deng, and you have no right to interfere.
心动倒不是，只是感慨普通修士筑基就已是很难，星宫秘术却能让你这种沉迷声色的凡俗如此年纪便修炼到筑基后期，实在是令我大开眼界。¤It's not that I'm envious, but rather amazed. It's already difficult enough for an ordinary cultivator to reach the late foundation establishment stage, but for someone like you who is so infatuated with pleasure at such a young age to have cultivated the star palace's secret arts to this level, it truly opens up my eyes.
这位是上一届英杰会亚军得主{FirstName}道友。{FirstName}道友，这位是星宫筑基后期修士王道友。¤This is fellow daoist {FirstName}, the runner-up of the previous Young Hero's Tournament. Fellow daoist {FirstName}, this is cultivator Wang, a late foundation establishment cultivator from Star Palace.
王道友你好。¤Hello fellow daoist Wang.
万木千花路不定，辰溪看绝始有亭。\n雪落枝头云初聚，披虹沐雨见本心。¤The path amongst myriad trees and blossoms is uncertain, but when Chen Xi arrived, there was a pavilion. 
林沐雪没有再多说什么，径直离开花园。¤Lin Muxue didn't say anything else and left the garden directly.
此诗乃是云汐城公孙公子前些年来林府拜访时所留，非沐雪所作，让道友见笑了。¤This poem was left by Gong Sun, the young master of Yun Shi City, when he visited Lin House a few years ago. It was not written by Mu Xue, so forgive me for any confusion, fellow daoists.
道友请用茶。¤Fellow daoist, please have some tea.
王登语气虽然还有些不善，但好歹算是道歉了。林沐雪也不好再说什么，只得满脸歉意的看向你。¤Although Wang Deng's tone still sounded unpleasant, he did apologize at least. Lin Muxue didn't know what else to say and could only look at you with an apologetic expression.
此景甚得老祖喜欢，故名之曰——疏雨粉梅，亦是因此在林府中设立花园，且筑亭为衬。¤This scenery is greatly loved by the Old Ancestor, and thus named it as Sparse Rain Powder Plum. Also, this is why a garden was established in Lin House, with a pavilion as a complement.
料是这雪梅染粉难得一见罢，若不是托林姑娘的福，此景我也是闻所未闻。¤It's rare to see such snow plum blossoms dyed with powder, and if it weren't for the blessings of Miss Lin, I wouldn't have heard of such a scene.
你还身在这林家花园中，自然是不想把事情闹大，便只是向林沐雪还以一笑，表示自己并不在乎。后者也是因此松一口气。¤You are still in the Lin family garden, so naturally you don't want to make a big fuss about this. You just smiled at Lin Muxue to show that you didn't care. The latter also breathed a sigh of relief because of this.
雪儿，原来你在这，让我一顿好找，你可要补偿我哦。¤Xue'er, I finally found you here after searching for so long. You need to make it up to me for this.
林沐雪领着你穿过偌大个林府后，终于来到了后院中的花园。¤After leading you through the enormous Lin House, Lin Muxue finally brings you to the garden in the backyard.
你们二人一边品茶一边聊了许久，很是愉快。直到若有似无的“滴答”声传入耳中，才转头去欣赏雨中的粉梅。¤The two of you chatted and drank tea for a long time, until the faint sound of dripping rain caught your attention and you turned to appreciate the pink plum blossoms in the rain.
这么叫不是太生分了嘛，还是叫雪儿好。咦？这小子是谁？¤It's a bit awkward to call me that. It's better to just call me Little Snow. Huh? Who is this guy?
这么叫不是太生分了嘛，还是叫雪儿好。咦，雪儿不给小生介绍一下这位妹妹么？¤Isn't it too formal to address me that way? Just call me Little Snow. Oh, Little Snow, why don't you introduce this sister to me?
好好交流一番不就熟悉了，{FirstName}妹妹你说是不是呀？¤If we communicate well, we'll become familiar with each other, right {FirstName} sis?
以前者的性格，若不是王登真做了什么过分的事情，只怕也不会以什么强硬手段制止他。¤Given the former's personality, if Wang Deng didn't do something excessive, it's likely he wouldn't have resorted to any tough measures to stop him.
从初入林府时便发现四下尽是灵植，葱郁一片，生气盎然，不禁觉得林府本就是一座花园，只是偶有修士的居所藏于花海荫下罢了。至于林沐雪所说的林府花园，恐怕也不过如此，只是多些观景用的亭台楼阁而已。¤When I first entered the Lin House, I noticed that there were spiritual plants everywhere, lush and vibrant. It felt like the Lin House was just a garden with cultivator residences hidden amongst the flower beds. As for Lin Muxue's description of the Lin House garden, it was likely just an embellishment with additional pavilions and towers for viewing.
今天我王登就要好好教训教训你，让你小子知道什么叫天高地厚！¤Today, I, Wang Deng, will teach you a lesson so that you will know what it means to be outmatched!
之后任王登胡缠蛮搅，你也只是静坐品茶，不再理会他。只是在他的骚扰下，这疏雨粉梅茶的韵味也淡了几分。¤After that, regardless of Wang Deng's pestering and harassment, you simply sat quietly and drank tea, paying him no mind. However, under his disturbance, the elegant taste of this delicate rain and plum tea was slightly diminished.
看来我今日是有幸一见这疏雨粉梅的奇景了。¤It seems that I am fortunate to witness this rare sight of Sparse Rain Pink Plum Blossoms today.
嘿嘿，{FirstName}妹妹不用客气，叫我王登哥...哦不，王登就好了。¤Hey hey, {FirstName} sister don't be polite, just call me Wang Deng bro... oh no, just Wang Deng is fine.
从花叶来看，这应该是凡间的雪梅，但...这株雪梅近旁灵气异常浓郁，其中可是有什么奥秘？¤From the appearance of its flowers and leaves, this should be a Snow Plum Blossom from the mortal realm, but... the spiritual energy around this Snow Plum Blossom is unusually thick. Could there be some sort of secret within it?
{FirstName}道友，我去为王道友取茶具，先失陪一会。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, I am going to fetch tea sets for Wang Daoist. Please excuse me for a moment.
好景！好诗！我正愁不知如何形容如此仙境，林姑娘真是善解人意。¤Good scenery! Good poetry! I was just worrying about how to describe such a fairyland, and Miss Lin really understands the mind of others.
随后的话题让你深觉无趣，旁听一会后便是告辞离去。¤The following topic bored you deeply, so you listened for a while before saying goodbye and leaving.
没想到公孙道友不仅阵法上的造诣超群，还深谙诗赋，当真令人佩服。¤I didn't expect my fellow daoist Gongsun to not only have extraordinary skills in array formations, but also be well-versed in poetry and literature. Truly admirable.
此树名唤疏雨粉梅，乃是林家花园中最为难得的仙品灵木。¤This tree is called the Shuyu Powder Plum and is the most rare and precious spiritual wood in the Lin Family's garden.
既名唤粉梅，树上花瓣却尽是雪白，这是为何？¤Once called Plum Blossom, why are all the flower petals on the tree pure white like snow?
这便是疏雨粉梅的神妙之处了。这梅花刚开放时花瓣雪白无暇，且有聚灵之效，待灵气浓郁时便会凝气成云，之后则是灵气雨下，雪梅也就此转变为粉梅。¤This is the wonder of the delicate snow plum. When the plum blossoms first bloom, the petals are pure white and flawless, and they have the ability to condense spiritual energy. When the spiritual energy is rich enough, it will condense into clouds, and then the spiritual rain will fall. Thus, the snow plum will transform into pink plum.
此番凶险，真是辛苦你了。你能力战元婴期老魔，我此时身无旁物这些灵石送你吧。¤This time it was really dangerous, thank you for your hard work. You were able to fight against an old demon at the Nascent Soul stage, so I will give you these spirit stones as a reward since I have nothing else to offer at the moment.
多谢前辈出手。¤Thank you senior for lending a hand.
而被古神教夺去的那柄戮仙剑，则能够释放令人心神动摇的煞气。¤The immortal executing sword, known as 戮仙剑 in Chinese, can release a devastating aura that shakes the very soul. It was taken from the ancient god sect, which is referred to as 古神教.
当年我还在血剑宫时确实查阅过一些相关的记录。¤When I was still in Blood Sword Palace, I did indeed look up some related records.
不错，正是如此...¤Not bad, that's exactly it...
为什么这些魔门花费那么大的精力也要夺取这些魔剑...它们有什么特殊之处么？¤Why do these demon sects put so much effort into seizing these demon swords...Do they have any special significance?
{shidi}可是已经通知到诸位化神？¤{shidi}, have you already informed all the Deity Transformations?
这不难理解...毕竟此剑的效果与血剑宫的功法配合的确是相得益彰，或许还能提升他们的修炼速度也未可知。¤This is not difficult to understand... After all, the effect of this sword complements the technique of Blood Sword Palace. Perhaps it can even increase their cultivation speed, but this is uncertain.
据我所知，血剑宫手中虽有一柄绝仙剑，但他们长期以来更想夺得的却是主长杀伐之力的戮仙剑。¤To my knowledge, while Blood Sword Palace does possess an Immortal Severing Sword, what they have really been striving for is the Immortal Executing Sword, which wields the power of life and death.
具体的时间我也不太清楚，不过想来应该不到30年了。¤I'm not exactly sure about the specific time, but I think it's been less than 30 years.
具体的时间我也不太清楚，不过想来应该不到40年了。¤I'm not too sure about the specific time, but I think it shouldn't be more than 40 years.
据说这四柄魔剑以诛仙剑为首，各有异能。若能发挥得当，远非寻常通天灵宝可以比拟。¤It is said that these four demon swords, led by the Immortal Sword, each possess unique abilities. If utilized correctly, they are far superior to ordinary Spiritual Treasures.
具体的时间我也不太清楚，不过想来应该不到20年了。¤I'm not sure of the exact time, but I think it's been less than 20 years.
具体的时间我也不太清楚，不过想来应该不到50年了。¤I'm not sure of the exact time, but I think it's been less than 50 years.
血剑宫手中的绝仙剑主防御，传说甚至能抵御一部分天劫的伤害。¤The Immortal Severing Sword held by the Blood Sword Palace is primarily used for defense. Legend has it that it can even withstand some of the damage caused by heavenly tribulations.
比如你手中的这柄诛仙剑，主吞噬，应该有吸收他人灵气的能力。¤For example, the immortal sword in your hand, with the ability of devouring, should have the power to absorb the spiritual energy of others.
天魔道手中的陷仙剑，有困敌与吸人精血之能。¤The Heavenly Demon Cult disciple held the Sword of Immortality, which had the power to trap enemies and absorb human blood.
具体的时间我也不太清楚，不过想来应该也就10年左右了。¤I'm not too sure about the specific time, but I think it's been about 10 years.
若能同时收集到四柄魔剑，便可布下诛仙剑阵。此剑阵效果千变万化，以任意一柄魔剑置于阵眼都可以发挥并扩大其本身的效果。¤If you can collect four demon swords at the same time, you can set up the immortal slaying sword array. This sword array has countless variations, and placing any one of the demon swords in the formation can enhance and expand its original effect.
师兄放心，诸位化神都表示会前来观礼。¤Don't worry, senior brother. All the deity transformations have expressed their intention to attend the ceremony.
好，辛苦了，之后的事便交给我吧。待时机成熟，我会让阿欣通知你的。¤Okay, thank you for your hard work. I will take care of things from now on. When the time is right, I will have Ah Xin notify you.
我能隐约感应到天劫将至，应该就在这两年间了。{shidi}可有替我通知各位化神？¤I can faintly sense that the Heavenly Tribulation is approaching, and it should happen within these two years. {shidi}, can you notify the other Deity Transformations for me?
为了一己私仇，来找风雨楼买他人性命的从不在少数。¤Many people come to the Storm Manor to buy the lives of others due to their personal grudges.
今日要说的就这些了，走吧。¤Today's topic is just these, let's go.
我欣赏你。¤I appreciate you.
哈哈哈...¤Hahaha...
另外...¤Furthermore...
琚运琦罕见的笑了起来。¤Ju Yunqi rarely smiled, but now he did.
自从你第一次完成天阶悬赏时，我就知道，你有这个实力。¤Ever since you completed your first Heavenly Tier mission, I knew you had the strength for this.
所以，特殊目标指的...是那些并非恶名在外，但也有人重金悬赏的目标吧？¤So, when you say special targets... you mean those who are not infamous, but people will still pay a lot of money to have them captured, right?
有些特殊的悬赏，我也不好推脱，但你若不想接，自然不必出手。¤Some special bounties, I can't refuse, but if you don't want to take them, you don't have to.
不用急着回答我，进入长老会也并非为我一人效劳，我只是提前告知你此事罢了。¤Don't worry about answering me right away. Joining the Elder Council isn't just about serving me alone. I'm just letting you know in advance.
{$daihao}，你和当年的我...真的很像。¤{$daihao}, you and the me from back then...are really alike.
风雨楼中...除了那些对外公开悬赏的目标外，还有一些不便公开悬赏的特殊目标。¤In the Storm Manor... besides the targets that are publicly offered for rewards, there are also some special targets that cannot be publicly rewarded.
{$daihao}，风雨楼成立至今，能够成为天字杀手的也不过二十余人。¤{$daihao}, since the establishment of Storm Manor, there have only been around twenty Heaven Rank Assassins.
这次找你来，是有一些事情要告知你。¤This time I've come to find you because there are some things I need to inform you about.
当然，这是权利，而并非义务。若你对此没有兴趣，大可不必参与。¤Of course, this is a right, not an obligation. If you are not interested in this, you do not need to participate.
但因为某些特殊的原因，风雨楼正常只会公开接取那些恶名在外的邪修作为目标。¤But due to certain special reasons, Storm Manor normally only publicly accepts notorious evil cultivators as targets.
你说的不错，风雨楼祖训自然有它的道理。¤You're right, the ancestral motto of Storm Manor has its own reasoning.
他微微皱起了眉头¤He slightly furrowed his brows.
他沉思了片刻，似乎是在犹豫。¤He pondered for a moment, seeming to hesitate.
成为天字杀手后，便有权利介入风雨楼长老会，参与风雨楼一些重大事宜的决策。¤After becoming a heaven rank assassin, you will have the right to intervene in the Storm Manor elder council and participate in the decision-making of some major events related to Storm Manor.
特殊悬赏的事，你暂时不必放在心上。若有报酬不错的悬赏，我自然会告知你的。¤You don't need to worry about the special bounty for now. If there is a well-paying bounty, I will let you know naturally.
特殊目标？¤Special target?
不用急着回答我，风雨楼长老会若无要事也不会召集众长老决议，我只是提前告知你此事罢了。¤No need to hurry to answer me, if there were no important matters, the Elder of Storm Manor wouldn't convene the council of elders to make a decision. I just wanted to inform you in advance about this matter.
这宁王府果然不简单，索性当年没有去趟这浑水...¤This Ning King's Manor is indeed not easy to deal with. It's a good thing I didn't step into this troubled water back then...
后来玄道宗派人前来，摸清了整件事原委。正准备将宁王擒拿归案时，却发现那老不死的居然携家眷跑了！¤Later, the Xuan Dao Sect sent people to investigate and uncover the whole truth of the matter. They were ready to capture the Ning King and bring him to justice, but they discovered that the old man had actually fled with his family!
莫非那白袍修士是玄道宗之人？¤Could it be that the white-caped cultivator is from the Xuan Dao Sect?
哎，兄台。你可知这宁王府到底发生了什么，之前来时不是还办什么天下仙道会，怎么转眼人全都不见了？¤Hey, brother. Do you know what really happened at Ning King's Manor? I mean, we came here for the Grand Immortal Conference before, but now everyone seems to have disappeared in a blink of an eye.
他这一走，宁王府的供奉、逸风府的官吏也作鸟兽散，搞得这逸风城群龙无首，我们这些散修倒是还好，只是苦了百姓...¤As soon as he left, the officials of Yifeng Manor and the Guest Elders of Ning King's Manor scattered like birds and beasts, leaving Yifeng City without a leader. We, who are Wandering Cultivators, are still okay, but the common people suffer...
没想到这宁王府竟与魔修有龃龉，索性当年斗法台比试后没有答应入府...¤I never expected that there would be conflicts between the Ning King's Manor and the Devil Cultivators. Hence, after the Dueling Terrace competition back then, I didn't agree to come to the manor.
嗨，那天下仙道会着实坑人。传闻说宁王与魔门勾结，暗中陷害供奉，以供奉肉身作药引开炉炼丹。¤Hi, the Immortal Path Convention of Heaven and Earth was really tricky. There were rumors that the Ning King colluded with the Demonic Sect and secretly set up the Guest Elder to be used as a bait for alchemy in the furnace.
你决定冒险一试，果然，你刚一碰到这些藤蔓，它们立刻就动了起来，将你紧紧缠住，动弹不得。¤You decide to take a risk and try it out. Sure enough, as soon as you touch these vines, they immediately start moving and tightly entangle you, rendering you immobile.
空气中弥漫着一股淡淡的血腥味，你发现这个洞窟深处长满了你此前从未见过的藤蔓类植物。¤The air is filled with a faint smell of blood as you discover the deep cave covered in vine-like plants you've never seen before.
这些藤蔓粗细不一，小的只有手指般粗细，大的则有一腰之宽。它们或吸附在岩壁上，或横倒在地，你只能小心翼翼地避开它们。¤These vines vary in thickness, some as slender as a finger while others are as wide as a waist. They cling to the rock face or lie horizontal on the ground, and you must carefully navigate around them.
再往前走去，这些藤蔓也越发的密集，几乎没有可以下脚的地方了。¤As I walked further, the vines became denser and there was almost no place to step on.
也不知若是触碰到这些藤蔓会发生什么，直觉告诉你它们并不简单，你决定...？¤You're not sure what will happen if you touch these vines, your intuition tells you that they are not easy to deal with. You decide...?
桀桀，这秘市也算是广陵城每年难得的盛会了。¤Hehe, this secret market is truly a rare event in Guangling City every year.
不错，化尘教很欢迎你这样的修士入我宗门，我先带你去面见大师姐。¤Not bad, the Shifting Sand Sect welcomes cultivators like you to join our sect. I will first take you to meet Senior Sister.
很抱歉你未能通过测试，请回吧。¤Sorry, you didn't pass the test. Please go back.
多谢道友救命之恩，财物有价生命无价，我只能倾囊以报。¤Thank you, fellow Daoist, for saving my life. My possessions are valuable, but my life is priceless. I can only repay you with all that I have.
好身手，领教{$TmpTalkString}高招了。¤Great skill, I will learn your {$TmpTalkString} techniques.
在下温杰，不知阁下是...？¤I am Wen Jie, may I know who you are, senior?
两位高人？¤Two experts?
{$TmpTalkString}过奖了。说来惭愧，我竹山宗大部分的功法典籍都与这竹山剑法格格不入，所以我独自琢磨了很久也不得要领。¤{$TmpTalkString}You flatter me. To be honest, most of the techniques in the Bamboo Mountain Sect's manuals are not compatible with the Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill. I have been studying it alone for a long time without much success.
{$TmpTalkString}说的是，我也听闻各派都有一套自称一派的剑法传承多年，不过除去金虹与星河两大剑派外，剩下三派的剑法几乎都已经失传了。¤{$TmpTalkString} said that he had heard that each sect had their own set of sword techniques that they claimed to be unique. However, except for the two major sword sects of Golden Rainbow and Celestial River, the sword techniques of the other three sects have almost been lost to time.
奇遇？那我可就感兴趣了，温兄可有兴致与我说上一二？¤An adventure? Then I am interested. Brother Wen, do you have any interest in telling me about it?
我只匆匆翻看了几眼，便又放回了原处。如此一二来去，几番去藏经阁后便已记了个大概。¤I only glanced at it hastily before putting it back in its original place. After doing this a few times, I had a rough idea of what was in the Hidden Manual Pavilion.
我名叫{FirstName}{LastName}，见温兄剑招舞的高明，不由自主便想与你切磋一二。¤My name is {FirstName}{LastName}. Seeing brother Wen's superb swordplay, I couldn't help but want to have a duel with you.
呼...道友的剑招真是高明，此番切磋令我受益颇丰呐。¤*Sigh* Fellow daoist, your sword techniques are truly outstanding. This duel has benefited me greatly.
哎，这我也不得而知了。从那以后，我虽然修为突飞猛进，却再也没有见到过这两位前辈了。¤Ah, I am not sure either. Since then, although my cultivation has advanced rapidly, I have never seen those two senior experts again.
后来还是经过两位高人指点，才令我的剑道得以突飞猛进的。¤Later on, it was only through the guidance of two experts that my sword dao was able to make tremendous progress.
不过平日里倒是很少听闻竹山宗人善使剑法的，今天算是开了眼了。¤However, it's rare to hear about the Bamboo Mountain Sect's proficiency in swordsmanship on normal occasions, today is truly eye-opening.
不过这门竹山剑法，真是除了温兄以外，再没听别人练过了。¤However, this Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill, other than Brother Wen, I have never heard anyone else practice it.
原来温兄的这套剑法竟是这样自学而来的，真是了不起啊。¤So Brother Wen actually self-taught this sword technique, truly amazing.
不过这本《竹山剑法》的秘籍，也不知是不是因为太久无人问津了，竟然被遗落在了一层的一个角落里。¤However, it's unclear whether the secret manual for the Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill 《竹山剑法》 has been neglected for too long or not, but it was found abandoned in a corner of level 1.
那日我和往常一样，独自在碧悠潭练着剑，突然却听到有两人的对谈之声。¤That day, I was practicing swordsmanship alone at the Biyou Pool, as usual, when suddenly I heard the voices of two people talking.
呼...温兄的剑招真是进步神速。今日的切磋令我受益颇丰呐。¤*Sigh*... Brother Wen's swordsmanship has really improved rapidly. Today's duel has truly been beneficial for me.
这两位前辈只闻其声，却不见其人，我知道必然是遇着了了不得的机缘，连忙高声呼喊，请前辈指点。¤These two seniors could only be heard but not seen. I know they must have encountered an extraordinary opportunity. I quickly shouted loudly, hoping for their guidance.
哈哈哈，温兄的剑招进步也很大，今日的切磋我也受益颇丰呐。¤Hahaha, Brother Wen has made great progress in his swordsmanship. I also benefited greatly from today's duel.
其中一人哈哈笑道：青元啊，没想到你那绣花剑法居然还有人会练。你今日正好来了，不如去指点他一二吧。¤Ha ha, one of them laughed, Qingyuan, I didn't expect anyone else to still practice your Embroidered Sword Technique. You've come at just the right time today, why not go and teach him a thing or two?
话说回来，你能有如此奇遇，也是因为你过去数年日复一日在这碧悠潭练剑的缘故吧。¤Speaking of which, your wonderful encounter was also due to the fact that you have been practicing swordsmanship at the Biyou Lake day after day for the past few years.
好身手，领教阁下高招了。¤Good skills, I am honored to learn from you.
此事我倒还未曾向他人提起，不过今日难得打的尽兴，与{$TmpTalkString}说说也无妨。¤I haven't mentioned this to anyone yet, but since I had a great time today, I don't mind talking to {$TmpTalkString} about it.
道友所言有几分道理，但其实我这竹山剑法最为讲究的，却是那生生不息的剑势。¤Fellow Daoist, what you said has some truth to it, but in fact, the most important aspect of my Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill is the restless sword technique.
我不敢明目张胆在宗门广场上练剑，所以此后便常常独自一人来到方壶山的这处碧幽潭练剑。¤I dare not practice swordsmanship openly in the Sect Plaza, so from now on, I often come alone to this Emerald Serene Pond at Fang Hu Mountain to practice swordsmanship.
道友果然眼光独到啊，一眼便看出了我这竹山剑法的精髓所在。¤Fellow Daoist truly has a unique vision, able to see at a glance the essence of my Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill.
依道友所见，我这剑法如何？¤Fellow daoist, in your opinion, how is my sword technique?
说不定总有一日，我们也可以修炼到他们那样的境界。到时候，你一定能够再见到那两位前辈的。¤Maybe one day, we can cultivate to the same level as them. By then, you will definitely be able to see those two senior again.
比试切磋需点到为止，咱们就到这里吧。¤Let's stop the duel here, we've reached the limit.
我会修炼这竹山剑法，说来倒也是因为有过一番奇遇。¤I will cultivate the Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill, which is all because of a wonderful encounter.
这奇遇还得从我炼气期时说起。{$TmpTalkString}应该知道，宗门藏经阁内的地阶秘籍，是只对筑基期以上的弟子才开放的。¤This wonderful encounter began during my qi refining stage. {$TmpTalkString}, as you may know, the earthly secret manuals in the hidden manual pavilion of the clan are only accessible to disciples who have reached foundation establishment or above.
于是那名被叫做青元的前辈便随便点出了我的几处问题，句句都直指要害，许多困扰了我数年的问题都迎刃而解了。¤And so the senior, known as Qingyuan, casually pointed out a few issues I had, each directly targeting the key points. Many problems that had plagued me for years were easily resolved.
道友的剑招也很高明，此番切磋令我也受益颇丰呐。¤Fellow daoist's sword techniques are also brilliant. This duel has benefited me greatly.
哈哈哈，{$TmpTalkString}说的是，我们都该以这样更高的目标努力才是。¤Hahaha, {$TmpTalkString} said that we should all strive for higher goals like this.
好好好，今日相谈甚欢，日后若是有什么见闻感悟，也好与{$TmpTalkString}分享。¤Very well, we had a delightful conversation today. If I gain any insights or realizations in the future, I will make sure to share them with {$TmpTalkString}.
太上长老...莫非...莫非这是哪位化神期的前辈！¤Could it be... Could it be an elder at the void transformation stage! the supreme elder exclaimed in shock.
另外一人辩解道：太上长老，我这点剑法自然入不了你的法眼。不过你这么说，未免太不在小辈面前给我留面子了吧。¤Another person argued: Supreme Elder, my sword skills are naturally not up to your standards. However, by saying that, aren't you not leaving any face for us juniors?
不错不错，好久没遇到过值得一战的对手了。¤Not bad, not bad. It's been a long time since I've encountered an opponent worth fighting.
哈哈哈哈，看来还是本座略胜一筹。¤Hahaha, it seems that I am slightly superior.
山清水秀，一览无余，好景色。只是真没想到生死比试会选在这种地方进行。¤The scenery is beautiful, with mountains and clear waters visible everywhere. However, I never imagined they would choose this place for the life and death competition.
初次见面，不清楚你的实力，所以我不会留手。¤First meeting, I am not sure of your strength, so I will not hold back.
...见过会长。¤I have seen the president.
好，比试也差不多该开始了，下面就按规矩，请代表唐家和长老堂出战的两位道友上场吧。¤Alright, the competition is about to begin. According to the rules, please have the two fellow daoists who are representing Tang Family and Elder Hall to step onto the stage.
我并不反对唐家对我发起挑战，但无论今日比试胜负如何，我必须提醒诸位，仔细想一想什么才是我们商会的立足之本。¤I do not oppose the Tang family's challenge to me, but regardless of the outcome of today's competition, I must remind you all to carefully consider what is the foundation of our business association.
吴长老，我们到了。¤Elder Wu, we have arrived.
既然你会被吴家选中，想必有些本事，日后由我们唐家主管商会，也会重用你这样的人。早些认输，我会尽量保你不死。¤Since you have been chosen by the Wu family, you must have some ability. In the future, our Tang family will be in charge of the commercial association, and we will also value people like you. Surrender earlier, and I will try to keep you alive.
吴会长，这些话就留到比试结束以后再说吧。¤Chairman Wu, let's save these words for after the competition ends.
哈哈哈，{FirstName}供奉。来这里少坐片刻，我已派人通知唐家，想必他们很快便到。¤Hahaha, {FirstName} guest elder. Please wait here for a moment. I have already sent someone to inform the Tang family and they should arrive soon.
吴四海，你若是手痒，我来做你的对手。不过今日是小辈间的比试，咱们这些长老堂的老骨头们就别凑这个热闹了。¤Wu Sihai, if you feel the urge, I'll be your opponent. However, today is a competition between the younger generation, so us elders from the Elder Hall shouldn't interfere.
你暗自凝聚一道神识向唐平刺去，只见那唐平霎时间面色铁青，一个踉跄险些跌倒在地，神色惊恐的望着你。¤You secretly condensed a strand of soul sense and stabbed it towards Tang Ping. Immediately, Tang Ping's face turned pale and he almost fell to the ground, looking at you in horror.
见过会长。¤Hello President.
你闭目养神，并不理睬此人的挑衅。那唐平自感无趣，冷哼一声，也不再说什么了。¤You closed your eyes to rest your mind, ignoring the provocation of this person. Tang Ping felt bored and gave a cold humph, no longer saying anything.
好了诸位，口舌之争便免去了吧。既然人已到齐，那么我就先说几句。¤Alright everyone, let's avoid arguing. Now that everyone's here, let me say a few words first.
不错，生死比试历来是我们碎星商会革新与传承的手段。人的寿元终究有限，早晚有一日，坐在我们现在位置上的会是这些小辈。¤Not bad, the life and death competition has always been the means of innovation and inheritance for our Shattered Star Merchant Guild. Lifespan is ultimately limited for humans, and one day, the ones sitting in our current positions will be these younger generation.
四海兄，看来这位道友便是你新找来的帮手吧。能让你看上的，想必修为不俗，这次的比试我可是很期待哟。¤Fellow Daoist Si Hai, it seems this friend of yours is the new helper you have found. If you have taken a liking to them, they must have a good cultivation level. I'm very excited for this contest.
这生死比试的规矩，是当年百里家的前辈定下的。想要在无尽之海上生存，最有效的永远是力量，商会不可能交给软弱之人掌控。¤The rules of this life and death competition were set by the seniors of the Baili family. The most effective way to survive in the endless sea is always through strength. The guild cannot be controlled by weak individuals.
我们碎星商会创建之初，只不过是这无尽之海上极为不起眼的一个小商会罢了。当年靠着百里家与我们吴家数代人的努力，才慢慢发展壮大。但若是没有后来唐家与白家的加入，我们定然不可能成为这广阔海域上最大的商会组织。¤When our Shattered Star Merchant Guild was first created, it was just a small, inconspicuous trading company on the Endless Sea. It was only through the efforts of the Baili and Wu families for several generations that we gradually grew and prospered. However, without the later addition of the Tang and Bai families, we would never have become the largest trading organization in this expansive sea area.
噢？这位道友倒是面生的很，怎么，吴四海，这就是你找来的救兵？看来你们吴家的那些小辈们是一个拿得出手的也没有啊。¤Oh? This fellow daoist looks unfamiliar, huh. So, Wu Sihai, is this the reinforcement you brought? It seems like the younger generation of your Wu family doesn't have anyone notable to offer.
你暗自凝聚一道神识向唐平刺去，却不料他似早有准备一般，将你的攻击弹了回来。¤You secretly condensed your soul sense and struck out towards Tang Ping, but unexpectedly he seemed to have been prepared and rebounded your attack.
见你出言反驳，唐平冷哼一声，也不再多说什么了。¤Seeing you refute my words, Tang Ping snorted coldly and didn't say anything more.
你闷哼一声，没想到此人修为如此高深，只是暗中的角力便已让你吃了大亏。¤You grunt, surprised at how profound this person's cultivation is. Just a covert clash has already caused you a significant disadvantage.
那唐平瞥了你一眼，言语讥讽，你决定...？¤That Tang Ping glanced at you disdainfully and made a sarcastic remark. What will you do?
白长老可真是无事一身轻啊，可惜比试规定长老会的成员不得亲自参加，否则老夫倒是想亲自会会那唐家小辈。¤Unfortunately, Elder Bai is quite idle. It's a shame that the members of the Elder Association who are participating in the competition are not allowed to participate in person, otherwise this old man would like to personally meet with that Tang family junior.
到底是谁送死可不一定，一切用实力说话，我劝道友还是不要太早下结论的好。¤Who sent who to their death is uncertain. Everything speaks through strength, my fellow daoist. I advise not to jump to conclusions too soon.
{xiaozi}，我不清楚那吴四海给你许诺了什么报酬，不过，我劝你还是不要趟这趟浑水，白白送死的好。¤{xiaozi}, I'm not sure what rewards Wu Sihai has promised you, but I advise you not to get involved in this mess. It's better to stay alive.
（抓散修...莫非广陵城那位道友的大哥失踪便与此人有关？）¤(Capturing wandering cultivators... Could it be related to the disappearance of the fellow daoist's elder brother from Guangling City?)
没想到此番去抓的那几个{color=#d0380a}散修{/color}倒有几分本事...这次元气大伤，怕是要好好调息一段时间了。¤I didn't expect those {color=#d0380a}wandering cultivators{/color} we went to catch to actually have some skill... My spiritual energy has been greatly damaged this time, I'm afraid I'll have to adjust my breath for a while.
正当你懊悔自己跟丢了人时，只听背后传来幽幽冷笑声...¤Just as you regretted losing the person, a faint, cold laughter came from behind you...
（不管了，先把他制住了再问也不迟！）¤(No matter what, let's subdue him now and ask questions later!)
哼，都怪那老家伙过分小心，不让我{color=#d0380a}暴露功法{/color}。要不然何至于被这几个散修伤到...¤Hmph, it's all because that old guy was overly cautious and didn't let me {color=#d0380a}reveal my techniques{/color}. Otherwise, how could I have been injured by these wandering cultivators...
你偷偷跟着他走了一段时间，只见他速度忽快忽慢，七转八扭之间竟不见了踪影。¤You secretly followed him for a while, only to see him speed up and slow down, and between twists and turns, he disappeared without a trace.
下辈子少管这种闲事，你还能活的久一点。¤Next life, don't bother with such trivial matters, so you can live a little longer.
（此人一看便不是什么善与之辈，还是别蹚这趟浑水了...）¤(At a glance, this person is not a kind-hearted individual. It's best to avoid getting involved with them...)
刚刚突破到金丹期的嗜焰蟒王实力太强了，无论是力量，速度还是施展法门的威力都远胜于你。好在你对于火之道感悟颇深，这才能够勉力支撑到现在。¤The recently breakthrough flame eating boa king at the golden core stage is too strong, surpassing you in strength, speed, and spell power. Fortunately, due to your deep enlightenment in the fire dao, you can barely hold on until now.
低沉的嘶鸣，嗜焰蟒王被你触怒了，它没有想到刚刚突破到金丹期的自己，竟会被一个筑基期的人类困住。¤The low growl of anger came from the Flame Eating Boa King. It was infuriated because it did not expect to be trapped by a Foundation Building human, even after it had just broken through to the Golden Core stage.
一次，两次...你的精神高度集中，尝试用各种方法破解火蛇的攻势。慢慢的，你似乎找到了其中窍门，同样开始尝试操控周天密布的火灵气进行反击。¤Once, twice... You concentrate deeply and try various methods to break the attack of the fire snake. Gradually, you seem to have found a way, and you begin to manipulate the densely packed fire spirits in your aura to counterattack.
而嗜焰蟒王似乎并不准备马上杀了你，反而像是把你当成了某种有趣的玩具一般戏耍。它不断喷吐出蛇形的灵气火焰攻击你，而你也只能疲于应对。¤However, the Flame Eating Boa King doesn't seem to be ready to kill you immediately. Instead, it plays with you as if you are some kind of interesting toy. It continuously spits out serpent-shaped spiritual flames to strike you, and you can only struggle to defend yourself.
你被一团炙热的火蛇紧紧围住，难以挣脱。¤You are tightly surrounded by a scorching fire snake, unable to break free.
你大笑着离开了这里，背后传来蛇王不甘的低吼。¤You left here laughing, with the Snake King's resentful growl echoing from behind.
以你对于火之道的感悟，学会更高难度的火焰操控技巧只是时间问题，而嗜焰蟒王给你带来的巨大压力正好令你跨出了那一步。¤With your enlightenment of the fire dao, mastering more challenging fire manipulation skills is only a matter of time. The pressure brought upon you by the Flame Eating Boa King has propelled you forward to the next level.
另一条巨大的火蛇凭空出现，一口将周围的小蛇吞噬干净，然后将嗜焰蟒王硕大的蛇头紧紧缠住。¤Another enormous fire snake appeared out of thin air, devouring the surrounding smaller snakes in one gulp, before tightly coiling around the gigantic snake head of the Flame Eating Boa King.
嗜焰蟒王不甘地低吼了一声，它没有想到刚刚突破到金丹期的自己，竟会被一个炼气期的人类击败。硕大的身躯跌落在地上，百余年的修为毁于一旦。¤The Flame Eating Boa King let out a reluctant roar. It couldn't believe that it, who had just broken through to the Golden Core realm, was defeated by a human in the Qi Refining realm. Its massive body fell to the ground, and all its cultivation of over a hundred years was destroyed in an instant.
领悟神通：{color=#d0380a}火蛇术{/color}¤Enlightenment Divine Skill: {color=#d0380a}Fire Snake Skill{/color}
哈哈哈哈，今天就打到这，嗜焰蟒王，多谢你助我突破！¤Hahaha, let's end it here today. Flame Eating Boa King, thank you for helping me breakthrough!
嗜焰蟒王不甘地低吼了一声，它没有想到刚刚突破到金丹期的自己，竟会被一个筑基期的人类击败。硕大的身躯跌落在地上，百余年的修为毁于一旦。¤The Flame Eating Boa King growled unwillingly. It never expected to be defeated by a foundation establishment human just after breaking through to the Golden Core stage. Its massive body collapsed to the ground, ruining hundreds of years of cultivation.
道友，找我何事？¤Fellow daoist, what brings you to me?
道友此事十万火急，还望道友速速行事。¤Fellow Daoist, this matter is extremely urgent. I hope that you can take action quickly.
道友我龙族正直多事之秋。¤Fellow Daoist, my Dragon Clan is currently experiencing a time of righteousness and many affairs.
{FirstName}供奉飞升如此盛事，我龙族自然不会错过。届时我与兄长定会前来为{FirstName}供奉护法。¤{FirstName}'s ascension is such an important event that our Dragon Clan wouldn't miss it. My elder brother and I will definitely come to act as guest elders to protect {FirstName} during the ceremony.
不错，不错，丹药的品质上乘，这些灵石是给你的报酬。¤Not bad, not bad... The quality of the dan medicine is top-notch, and these spirit stones are your reward.
我们灵药堂的炼丹房当然不会随便对外开放，不过稍稍花些钱，便可以在白帝楼租借到一间地火房，倒也不算麻烦。¤Our Spirit Herb Hall's Alchemy Room is not open to the public, but for a small fee, you can rent an Earth Fire Room at the White Emperor Pavilion, which is not a problem.
这不同的药材之间，药性自然不同。但即便是同一种草药，在炼丹时作为主药，辅药或是药引使用，功效也大有差别。¤Among these different medicinal materials, their medicinal properties naturally vary. However, even for the same type of herb, when used as the main ingredient, auxiliary ingredient, or medicine guide during alchemy, the effects can be vastly different.
不过若是没有丹方，那就得自行鉴别药材，调整配方，再中和药性...这可就是一门学问了。¤However, if there are no recipes, then one must personally identify the medicinal materials, adjust the formula, and neutralize the medicinal properties... This is a discipline in itself.
教嘛倒也谈不上，这炼丹本来也不是什么难事。¤Teaching is not really necessary, alchemy is not that difficult to begin with.
你也会炼制丹药？¤Do you also know how to make a potion?
眼下我们的库存的确略有不足，因此{$Var}¤At present, our inventory is indeed slightly insufficient, therefore {$Var} will be preserved and not changed.
有经验的炼丹师，只需要自己动手炼制一次药材，就可以从药渣中鉴别出它独特的药性。¤Experienced alchemists only need to prepare medicinal materials once themselves, and they can identify the unique medicinal properties from the medicine dregs.
我这里正好还有一副“生骨丹”的丹方，倒也不值什么钱，便一起送给你好了。¤I happen to have a recipe for the 'Minor Healing Pill' here, which isn't worth much anyway. I'll just give it to you.
就比如咱们宁州最常见的流莹草，作为主药使用可“生息”，作为辅药使用可“培元”。同时，作为一味“性热”的药草，它也可以作为药引，中和其他“性寒”的草药。¤For example, the most common herb in Ningzhou is ebbglow stalk, which can be used as a main herb to strengthen and as an auxiliary herb to birth. At the same time, as a heat herb, it can also be used as a guide herb to neutralize other cold herbs.
这种丹药的话...我炼制起来也颇有难度。¤This kind of pill...it's quite difficult for me to refine.
我们灵药堂愿意以{$jiangli}的价格收购这批丹药。¤Spirit Herb Hall is willing to purchase this batch of pills at the price of {$jiangli}.
若是强行用低品阶的丹炉炼制高品阶的丹药，甚至会有炸炉的风险！¤If a low-class alchemy furnace is forcibly used to refine high-class medicinal pills, there's even a risk of furnace explosion!
这丹药的品阶越高越难炼制，这丹方的价格自然也是水涨船高，一些稀有的丹方甚至可以在拍卖会上拍出数万灵石的高价。¤The higher the class of this pill, the more difficult it is to refine. The price of this recipe naturally rises as well. Some rare recipes can even be auctioned for tens of thousands of spirit stones.
若是你也能炼成符合我们品质要求的丹药来，我可以用比市场价略高一筹的价格从你这里收购。¤If you can also refine medicinal pills that meet our quality requirements, I can purchase from you at a slightly higher price than the market value.
这炼丹场地倒也颇有讲究，一般的房间可经受不住“地火”的炙烤。¤This alchemy site is quite particular, ordinary rooms can't withstand the scorching of earthfire.
炼丹用的丹炉也分品阶，高品质的丹炉更耐用，也能够承受更多的药力。¤The alchemy furnaces used for alchemy are also classified into different classes. Higher quality furnaces are more durable and able to withstand more medicinal power.
托你炼制的丹药你可带来了？¤Did you bring the medicine that you were asked to refine?
（上下打量）你一个才刚踏入炼气期的{xiaozi}能炼出什么好丹药来？别在这里捣乱了。¤(Examining from head to toe) What kind of good elixir can a {xiaozi} who has just stepped into the qi refining stage produce? Don't cause trouble here.
不过光咱们宁州常见的草药便数不胜数，何况还有各种稀有的海外仙草，药性各不相同，恐怕最有经验的炼丹师也没办法鉴别出所有药材功效来。¤However, the herbs commonly found in Ningzhou alone are countless, not to mention the various rare fairy herbs from overseas, each with different medicinal properties. Even the most experienced alchemist may not be able to identify all the effects of medicinal materials.
不过若只是炼制常见的基础丹药，丹药不妨去{color=#d0380a}天星城{/color}看看，他们那里不仅出售神通术法也出售各类丹方。¤However, if you only need to refine common basic elixirs, you may want to visit {color=#d0380a}Starsky City{/color} where they not only sell divine skills but also various elixir recipes.
你刚开始学习炼丹，倒是用不上什么太好的炉子。像这种普通的一品丹炉，出个400灵石拿去便是。¤You just started learning alchemy, so you don't really need a top-tier furnace. A common first grade furnace like this one will do the job, and you can get it for 400 spirit stones.
而且若是熟知药理，又精通药性的鉴别，即便没有丹方，也未必不能自己摸索炼制出丹药来。¤Moreover, with a thorough understanding of pharmacology and the ability to differentiate medicinal properties, even without specific recipes, one may still be able to experiment and refine the process of pill-making.
我们灵药堂向来有自己的炼丹大师，不过偶尔也确实会因为某些草药短缺而库存不足。¤Our Spirit Herb Hall has always had our own alchemy master, but occasionally, due to a shortage of certain herbs, our inventory may be insufficient.
我们灵药堂近日货存充足，没有什么需要补充的丹药。¤Our Spirit Herb Hall has sufficient stock of recent goods, there is no need to supplement any elixirs.
没钱？那我可不能白送你。¤No money? Then I can't give it to you for free.
备齐了药材，再配上一个高品质的丹炉，按着丹方一步步走，任谁都能炼出一炉上好的丹药来。¤Once you have all the medicinal materials prepared and paired with a high quality alchemy furnace, following the recipe step by step, anyone can successfully refine a batch of top-quality pills.
琚长老，你再不出手，我可就撑不住了。¤Elder Ju, if you don't make a move soon, I won't be able to hold on much longer.
赤目老祖狂性大发，不再管你，而是扭身与琚运琦战做一团。¤Venerable Scarlet Eye went berserk, no longer paying attention to you, instead he entangled in a fierce fight with Ju Yunqi.
琚运琦怎么了？是谁告诉你我的行踪的？¤What happened to Ju Yunqi? Who told you about my whereabouts?
琚运琦？是他让你来的？¤Ju Yunqi? Did he send you?
他虽然身负重伤，但如此不要命的打法却让琚运琦一时之间也不敢用强。¤Although suffering from serious injuries, his reckless fighting style made even Ju Yunqi hesitant to use force for a moment.
琚长老？¤Elder Ju?
琚运琦，你机关算尽，不惜背信弃义也要除掉我，最后也没能保住你那点小秘密，真是可笑。¤Ju Yunqi, you've planned everything out and went so far as to betray me just to get rid of me. In the end, you couldn't even keep your little secret. How ridiculous.
九幽刺...¤The Nine Ghosts Sting...
你正在考虑要不要出手，远处却传来一个熟悉的声音。¤You're contemplating whether or not to make a move, but a familiar voice can be heard in the distance.
哈哈哈哈哈，就你这点本事，也想杀我？¤Hahaha, with just your measly abilities, you still want to kill me?
琚运琦没有理睬赤目老祖，而是面色铁青的看着公孙季。¤Ju Yunqi ignored Venerable Scarlet Eye and instead, with a face as cold as ice, looked at Gongsun Ji.
风雨楼的人都来齐了？琚运琦！杀了我对你有什么好处？¤Are all the people from Storm Manor here? Ju Yunqi! What benefit do you have in killing me?
别忘了...当年可是我助你坐上了这大长老的位置！¤Don't forget...it was me who helped you to become the grand elder back then!
哈哈哈，多亏了琚长老的计谋，我们才能抓住这条大鱼。¤Hahaha, thanks to Elder Ju's plot, we were able to catch this big fish.
赤目老祖与琚运琦二人分别化作一道血色与紫色的遁光，向着不同的方向逃去...¤The venerable Scarlet Eye and Yun Qi transformed into a scarlet and purple escape light respectively, fleeing in different directions...
一道紫光突然闪过，穿破赤目老祖身边的血色剑气，将他的肩膀捅了个对穿。一时间赤目老祖血流不止，本就泛着红光的眼眸愈发狰狞起来。¤A purple light suddenly flashed, piercing through the scarlet sword qi surrounding Venerable Scarlet Eye and stabbing through his shoulder. Blood flowed profusely from him, and his already red-tinged eyes grew even more ferocious.
赤目老祖，还想活着离开的话，不如你我最后再合作一次，如何？¤Venerable Scarlet Eye, if you wish to leave here alive, why don't we cooperate one last time? What do you say?
{$daihao}，你还不出手？¤{$daihao}, aren't you going to make a move yet?
琚运琦...你竟敢...¤Ju Yunqi... How dare you...
好...好...好！¤Okay... okay... okay!
当年公孙璞都没能要了我的命，你这点微末道行，和他还差的远了。¤In the past, even Gongsun Pu couldn't take my life. Your level of cultivation is far from his.
也？阿焰连你都被他们耍了？嘎嘎嘎~啊¤Huh? Ah Yan, even you got played by them? Hahaha~ Ah.
咕~¤Goo~
{shidi}也失手了？¤Did {shidi} also make a mistake?
具体的情况，我还没问几句就触发了什么禁制，他就直接气绝了¤Specifically, before I could ask a few more questions, I triggered some kind of restriction and he immediately passed out.
（元婴期大妖一下就是两只。）¤(Two great demons in the Nascent Soul stage appeared suddenly.)
（没等你开口）¤(Before you could say anything)
你就是{FirstName}{LastName}吧，阿焰让我们在这里等你。¤You must be {FirstName}{LastName}, Ah Yan asked us to wait for you here.
据传闻年{$year}前，古神教觊觎这炼丹之法，他们难以抵挡就逃亡宁州了。当时还是化尘教处理的此事。¤According to rumors from {$year} years ago, the Ancient God Sect coveted the art of alchemy and, unable to withstand it, fled to Ningzhou. The Shifting Sand Sect was the one who dealt with the matter at the time.
钟焰面露厌恶之色。¤Zhong Yan's face showed disgust.
呦~你就是{FirstName}{LastName}吧，阿焰让我们在这里等你。¤Hey~ You must be {FirstName}{LastName}, Ayana asked us to wait for you here.
此时，钟焰面色凝重的走了进来。¤At this moment, Zhong Yan walked in with a solemn expression.
你连我都不知道？我乃是炎麟大圣~~~¤Do you even know me? I am the Blaze Unicorn Sage~~~
你呀就是口无遮拦，就不怕炎师弟拔光你的鸟毛？¤You really have no filter, aren't you afraid that Yan Junior will pluck all your feathers?
看什么看，没见过帅哥啊。¤What are you looking at? Haven't you seen a handsome guy before?
一只鹤站在一只火蟾的头上，你们的目光在半空中交汇了。¤A crane stood on the head of a fire toad, and your gaze met in mid-air.
看你空手而归，莫不是事情办砸了？¤Did you come back empty-handed? Did you fail to handle the matter?
你讲所见所闻如实告知。¤You speak of what you have seen and heard truthfully.
我擒下一人，自称是玄古门门下。¤I captured a person who claimed to be from the Profound Ancient Sect.
{xiaozi}，可是找到了那豹麟兽？¤{xiaozi}, have you found the Panther-Dragon beast?
钟焰并不在此地。不过早有别“人”在等你。¤Zhong Yan isn't here, but another person has been waiting for you long before.
的灵兽。你可以叫我炎鹤大人，他是天蟾子。阿焰有事缠身，就拜托我们在此等你。¤The spiritual beast belongs to me. You can call me Lord Fliery Crane, and he is Heavenly Toad. A Yan is currently busy with something, so we were asked to wait here for you.
嘶~衡州？他们和古神教那帮王八蛋什么关系啊？¤Hiss~ Hengzhou? What's their relationship with those bastards from the Ancient God Sect?
这玄古门本是衡州的小宗门，不过门下精善炼药也小有名气，不过...¤This Profound Ancient Sect was originally a small sect in Hengzhou, but they are well-known for their skill in alchemy. However...
嘶~恒火这傻子干什么吃的，他竟没有察觉么。¤Hey~ What did Honghuo eat? How could he not notice?
算了，此事本就是我私人委托。{shidi}已经尽力了，不必放在心上。¤Forget it, this is a matter I personally entrusted. My junior apprentice brother has done his best, there's no need to worry about it.
这两块赤火元铜是我自己的的收藏，就赠予{shidi}了。¤These two pieces of red fire copper are from my personal collection, and I am giving them as a gift to {shidi}.
钟焰挥手击落站在蛤蟆头顶的炎鹤。¤Zhong Yan waved his hand and brought down the fiery crane standing on top of Toad's head.
他们的炼丹之法多有以妖族血肉入药的法子，虽不似天魔道那班疯子，却也称不上是正道修士。¤Their method of alchemy often involves using the flesh and blood of demon beasts as medicinal ingredients, though they are not as crazy as those in the Heavenly Demon Cult, they cannot be considered as cultivators of the righteous path.
还未请教，你是？¤Have not yet asked, who are you?
玄古门？没听说啊。¤Profound ancient sect? Never heard of it.
（睁开眼）咕~¤(Opens eyes) Gu~
既然知道自己的实力还有不足，就更要好好修炼。凭你现在这点修为，还没有资格学习为师的绝学。¤Since you know there are still flaws in your strength, you must cultivate diligently. With your current level of cultivation, you are not qualified to learn my master's unique skills.
在师尊的点拨之下，你又有了新的感悟。¤Under the guidance of the master, you have again enlightened yourself with new insights.
为师的这门绝学可不是那么容易就能学会的，你现在修为到底如何，就让为师来考教一番吧。¤This supreme art of mine is not something that can be easily learned. Let me test your cultivation and knowledge. 
为师此次给你两个月的时间，就让我看看你这段时间的修炼成果吧。¤For this time, I will give you two months to cultivate and let me see your progress during this period.
你且听好...¤Listen carefully...
贪多嚼不烂，为师也只能传授你一部分的经验见解，悟道修行最终还是得看你自己的悟性与仙缘。¤Trying to do too much at once will lead to insufficient understanding. As your teacher, I can only impart a portion of my experience and insights. Ultimately, achieving enlightenment in cultivation depends on your own comprehension and xian yuan.
今日来找为师何事？¤What brings you here today, Master?
过段时间再来吧。¤Come back in a while.
哈哈哈...不错不错，你果然没有让为师失望。¤Hahaha...not bad, not bad, you certainly didn't disappoint me as your teacher.
若你能战胜为师，那便代表你已经有了足够的实力，为师也可以放心地把师门绝学传授于你，相信你不会辱没了师门威名。¤If you can defeat me, it means you have enough strength, and I can pass on the ultimate skills of the sect to you with confidence, believing you will not disgrace the reputation of the sect.
多谢师尊¤Thank you Master.
为师的这门绝学可不是那么容易就能学会的，你如今修为尚浅，等你至少突破到{color=#d0380a}筑基中期{/color}以后再来吧。¤This supreme technique of mine is not something that can be easily learned. Your {color=#d0380a}mid foundation establishment{/color} cultivation is too shallow. Come back when you have at least reached the {color=#d0380a}foundation building{/color} level.
接下来便是你出师前最后的考验了，为师会将自身修为压制与你切磋一番。¤Next is your final test before leaving as my disciple. I will suppress my cultivation and duel with you.
很好，看来你对自己的实力很有信心，希望你不要让为师失望。¤Very good, it seems that you have confidence in your own strength. I hope you won't let your teacher down.
“轰！”{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Boom! {vpunch=10,0.5}
你的识海猛的一阵轰鸣，一道阴冷的神识突然锁定了你。¤Your soul sense suddenly locked onto you with a loud roar in your sea of ​​consciousness.
我说天机阁为何要设在这地方，倒还真是个风水宝地。¤I said, why did the Heavens Secrets Pavilion have to be set up in this place? It really is a feng shui treasure land.
与总管告别后，你们一同前往天机阁四周游玩了一番。¤After bidding farewell to the steward, you all went to explore around the Heavenly Secrets Pavilion together.
但见绿树青山，层峦叠嶂，这壮阔又不失清秀的美景被你二人尽收眼底。¤Only green trees and mountains could be seen, layer upon layer of them, this grand and yet delicate beauty was fully enjoyed by the two of you.
好，我也回客房休息了。到时候你在擂台上，我一定给你加油助威！¤Alright, I'm going back to the guest room to rest. When the time comes and you're on the arena, I'll definitely cheer you on!
好，我们到时候见~¤Alright, we'll see you then~
今日一游确是意犹未尽，不过现在天色已晚，我们且回去休息罢。¤Today's outing was indeed enjoyable, but it is already late in the day. Let's return and rest.
倪兄所言极是。¤What Brother Ni said is absolutely true.
今日一游确是意犹未尽，不过现在天色已晚，我也需回去准备一番，我们明日再会吧。¤Today's outing was indeed enjoyable, but it's already getting late, so I need to go back and prepare. Let's meet again tomorrow.
不觉间，竟已是傍晚时分。¤Unconsciously, it was already evening.
我们鳞皮行专售各类妖兽鳞片，外皮类材料。道友看看有什么需要的？¤Our scales and skins shop specializes in selling various types of spirit beast scales and skins, as well as materials of similar nature. Fellow Daoist, take a look and see if there's anything you need?
真是好茶！那还麻烦前辈替我谢谢家主前辈和倪道友了。¤That's really good tea! Please thank the senior patriarch and daoist ni for me.
不错，这倪家还真算是客气周到，有了这些灵石，也能让你轻松一段日子了。¤Not bad, the Ni family is really hospitable and considerate. With these spirit stones, you can also live comfortably for a while.
宴上的意外...实在是不好意思，绝非我倪家本意。家主少主他们可担心坏了。少爷还亲自为你开炉炼了丹药...咳咳，你还是别试的好。¤The accident at the banquet... I apologize on behalf of the Ni family. It was never our intention. The patriarch and young master are very worried about it. The young master even personally brewed a pill for you... ahem, it's better not to try it.
对了，这个呢，则是我倪家的一点心意，你不必客气，收下便是，希望能成为你修炼路上的一份助力。¤By the way, this is just a little something from my Ni family. Please don't be polite and just accept it. I hope it can be a help to you on your cultivation journey.
前辈哪里话，我是晚辈，待哪日家主前辈得闲归来，我再来府上亲自拜访才是。¤Senior, you're too kind. I am a junior. When the patriarch is free to return home someday, I will come to the manor to pay my respects in person.
若能{color=#d0380a}拜入修真大派{/color}，自然能少走不少的弯路。但凡大宗门传承的神通功法，皆有其独到玄妙之处。¤If one is able to {color=#d0380a}join a major sect of cultivation{/color}, they will naturally be able to avoid many detours. All the divine skills and techniques passed down by major sects have their own unique and profound characteristics.
门开了，一位家仆捧着一盏灵茶向你慢步走来，后面跟着一位精神矍铄的老者。¤The door opened, and a house servant walked slowly towards you with a cup of spirit tea in his hands, followed by a spirited and vigorous old man.
莫欺少年穷，我一定会触摸到这个世界的顶端！¤Do not underestimate the poor youth, I will definitely touch the top of this world!
仙途漫漫，危机四伏，稍不留意便会身死道消。你最能信赖的，就只有自己的实力罢了。¤On the path of immortality, danger lurks at every turn. A single misstep can lead to certain death. The only thing you can truly trust is your own strength.
可惜...我本就不精于这些事情，如今又失去了大半记忆，想要在这些方面有所成就，就只能靠你自身的机缘了。¤Unfortunately...I was never proficient in these matters, and now I have lost much of my memory. If you want to achieve success in these areas, it will depend entirely on your own opportunities.
再次睁开眼，你已身在客房之中。枕边的锈剑斑驳依旧，平平无奇。只有满口的酒气和空洞的丹田，让你明白这并非一场梦。¤Opening your eyes again, you find yourself in a guest room. The rusty sword by your pillow still looks unremarkable. Only the smell of alcohol on your breath and the emptiness in your lower dantian make you realize that it wasn't just a dream.
你轻抿了一口，只觉得清香袭人，如登仙境，不禁咕咚咚一饮而尽。感到神清气爽，心境通明。¤You took a light sip and felt the refreshing fragrance, as if you were in a fairyland. Without realizing it, you gulped down the drink and felt clear-minded and bright-hearted.
修真界以强者为尊，想要摆脱这种人为刀俎我为鱼肉的情况，你要走的路可还长着。¤The world of cultivating immortals is ruled by the strong. If you want to break free from being at the mercy of others, you have a long road ahead of you.
那咱们也得识相一些，别待太久，尽快离开吧。走之前最好去{color=#d0380a}大厅{/color}和管家打个招呼，打听打听。¤We should also be sensible and not stay too long, let's leave as soon as possible. Before we go, it would be best to greet the {color=#d0380a}grand hall{/color} and the {color=#d0380a}steward{/color} and inquire about things.
门派内的修炼资源较多，而且其中见多识广的长老师兄也会传授你一些经验教训。¤Within the sect, there are abundant resources for cultivation, and the more experienced senior brothers and elders can also impart some valuable experience and lessons.
哈哈哈，好！你若有什么想知道的，随时可以来倪府大厅找我，我自当知无不言，言无不尽。¤Ha ha ha, good! If you have any questions, you can always come to Ni's Manor grand hall to find me. I will definitely tell you everything I know, nothing held back.
哈哈哈，你有这份志气便可达成夙愿。¤Hahaha, with such aspiration, you can achieve your long-cherished dream.
同阶修士间的争斗，修为并不是最重要的。若是{color=#d0380a}功法{/color}，{color=#d0380a}神通{/color}掌握的熟练，又有趁手的{color=#d0380a}法器{/color}辅助，面对修为比你高深的对手也不是没有一战之力。¤In the battles between cultivators of the same level, cultivation level isn't the most important factor. If one's techniques and divine skills are mastered well, and with helpful magic tools on hand, even facing opponents with deeper cultivation, there's still a fighting chance.
不错，心性可嘉。¤Not bad, admirable temperament.
不错，小友举止不俗，恭敬有礼，将来必成大器。¤Not bad, young friend's behavior is impressive, respectful and courteous. In the future, they will surely become a great talent.
小友好好休息，老夫还有公务需要处理，就先行告辞了。从今往后，我倪府你自可随意出入。¤Young friend, rest well. I still have official business to attend to, so I'll take my leave. From now on, you may come and go freely in Ni's Manor.
大道三千，殊途同归，个人自有个人的机缘。¤The great dao is limitless, yet all paths lead to the same end. Each individual has their own chance and destiny.
不错，{xiaozi}，收拾一下，咱们离开这里.....等等，有人来了。¤Not bad, {little one}, tidy up a bit, let's leave this place... Wait, someone is coming.
小友你终于醒了，可还有什么不舒服的地方？¤Young friend, you have finally woken up. Are there any other uncomfortable places?
手中的宝剑瞬间安静下来，没有一丝灵力波动，像极了一把普通老旧的铁剑。¤The sword in hand suddenly became quiet, with no spiritual energy fluctuations, like an ordinary old iron sword.
但也不是说散修就不能成就一番作为，无拘无束，只凭自己的本心求道，自会遇到属于你的机缘奇遇。只是会{color=#d0380a}困难非常{/color}罢了，你要仔细斟酌。¤But it's not to say that wandering cultivators can't achieve something great. Free and unrestrained, only relying on their own hearts to seek the dao, they will naturally encounter a wonderful encounter that belongs to them. It's just that it will be {color=#d0380a}difficult{/color}, so you must carefully consider it.
哈哈哈，小友喝慢点、喝慢点...这茶可不常有，是少爷珍藏的，非要我给你沏了送来。¤Hahaha, young friend, drink slowly... This tea is not available often, it's the young master's prized collection. He insisted that I brew and bring it to you.
虽然那倪家主并无恶意，但想起那令自己动弹不得的凌厉剑意，你还是不经有些后怕...这次若非自己运气好，此时恐怕早已身首异处！¤Although the head of the Ni family did not have any ill intentions, the thought of that sharp sword intent that made it impossible for oneself to move still made one feel a little scared... If it weren't for one's good luck this time, one would probably have already been dismembered!
多谢前辈关心，我已经没有什么大碍了。¤Thank you senior for your concern, I am already fine.
除了修炼以外，还有炼丹、炼器、布阵等等的技巧，皆可成道。¤Aside from cultivation, there are also skills such as alchemy, refining, and formation formation, etc., that can lead to immortality.
你恭敬地接过灵茶，只见碧叶点点，灵气飘飘，一看便不是凡物。¤You respectfully took the spirit tea, only to see the jade leaves floating and full of spiritual energy. At a glance, you could tell it was not an ordinary item.
你向倪府管家深施一礼。老者笑了笑，示意不必多礼，便悠然离去。¤You give a deep bow to the steward of Ni's Manor. The elder smiles and gestures for you to not be too formal before leaving leisurely.
家主有要事已经出城，少主在阁中闭关修炼，不便与你相见，有失礼数，小友莫怪。¤The sect leader has already left the city for important matters, while the young master is currently cultivating in seclusion within the pavilion. It's not convenient for him to meet you, which would be impolite and disrespectful. Please don't take offense, young friend.
这个世界本就由强者和弱者组成，但我不会永远停步在弱者的行列。¤This world is made up of strong and weak, but I will not always stand in the ranks of the weak.
倪府管家郑重地递给你一个鼓鼓囊囊的储物袋，你神识一探，里面足有一千五百灵石。¤The elder steward of Ni's Manor solemnly hands you a bulging storage pouch. Your soul sense explores it and finds that there are 1,500 spirit stones inside.
你努力撑起酸痛的身体，倚坐在灵榻上，摸了摸脖子，摸了摸心口，抚摩着锈渍铁剑，长舒了一口气。¤You exerted effort to prop up your sore body, leaning on the spirit couch. You touched your neck, then your chest, caressing the rusted iron sword and taking a deep breath.
相反，若只是闭门枯坐，没有任何临战经验，那修炼百年也不过是空有一身无用的修为，真要遇到危险可就束手无策了。¤On the contrary, if one only cultivates in seclusion without any actual battle experience, then even after a hundred years of cultivation, they would only possess useless cultivation. If facing danger, they would be completely helpless.
请快快用些茶吧，此茶有解酒提神之效。喝下应该会舒服一些。¤Please use some tea quickly, this tea has the effect of relieving alcohol and refreshing the mind. Drinking it should make you feel better.
有心无力的滋味怎么样，{xiaozi}？¤How does it feel to be willing but powerless, {xiaozi}?
场上刹时风云变幻，转眼之间老者又出现在了正与麒麟近身相搏的红莲身后。¤On the battlefield, the situation changed in an instant, and in the blink of an eye, the old man appeared once again behind the Red Lotus, who was engaging in close combat with the Kirin.
无知...¤Ignorant...
人类修士...至多不过千余年寿元。化神大妖...也不过活数万年。¤Human cultivators...have a lifespan of at most a few thousand years. Deity transformed demons...can only live for several tens of thousands of years.
夺下两柄魔剑的恶饕老祖也愈发疯狂，不顾身后追来的正魔两道化神，直直的便又朝着你冲了过来！¤The demonic patriarch gluttonous, who had taken possession of two demon swords, became increasingly insane. Ignoring the pursuit of two deity-transformed beings behind him, he charged straight towards you!
老夫苦等数万年...终于等到今天...¤The old man has been waiting for tens of thousands of years... Finally, today has arrived...
今日，便是我觅得长生之日...而你们...都将死无全尸！¤Today is the day I attain eternal life... and you all will be checkmated without a complete corpse!
“咕嘟...咕嘟...”¤gudou...gudou...
就在老者想要转身后撤的当口，血亢剑仙已经追了上来，身下的血剑直冲老者而去，一旁的红莲尊者也手掐法诀，一道凝实的黑气也攻向老者。¤Just as the old man was about to retreat, the High Blood Sword Immortal caught up. His blood sword shot straight towards the old man, while the Red Lotus beside him used a hand gesture to send a solid black gas at the old man.
就在这众目睽睽之下，恶饕老祖竟突然消失不见了。不...应该说是他快到让人无法再捕捉到他得身影。¤In the midst of everyone's watchful eyes, Patriarch Gluttonous suddenly disappeared without a trace. Or...it should be said that he moved so fast that people couldn't catch his figure anymore.
半空之上，第八道雷劫正慢慢成型，但此时众人的焦点却都集中在这个怪物的身上。¤In mid-air, the eighth thunder kalpa was slowly taking shape, but at this moment everyone's focus was concentrated on this creature's body.
粗壮的手臂之上更是伸出无数藤曼，卷着刚刚夺下的魔剑砍向血亢和红莲，将两人击退。¤On the thick and strong arms, numerous crimson vines were extended, curling around the demon sword that was just captured and slashing towards Blood Mania and Red Lotus, sending both of them flying back.
今日四剑齐聚，这确实是个难得的机会。¤Today, the four swords gather together. This is indeed a rare opportunity.
而在这红光之中，消失的老者显现出了身形，伸手就夺走了血亢手中的魔剑。¤In the midst of this red light, the disappearing old man reappeared and snatched the demon sword from Blood-Crazed's hand.
血亢剑仙瞬间清醒过来，闪身避开藤蔓，随即一剑刺出，正扎在恶饕老祖的胸前。¤The High Blood Sword Immortal instantly woke up and dodged the vines, then thrust his sword into the chest of Patriarch Gluttonous.
在老者连绵不绝的攻势下，你最后的防御也被击破。魏无极急忙中再次凝聚虚影，驱使着诛仙剑挡下了一击。¤Under the continuous attacks of the old man, your final defense was also broken. Wei Wuji quickly condensed a phantom and urged the Immortal Sword to block the strike.
刚刚还在交手的众化神也不由的把目光转移到了你们这里。¤The group of deities who were just fighting now shifted their attention towards you all.
化神修士最多在下界逗留千年，这恶饕十万年前便化神了，还能活到今日？¤Deity transformation cultivators usually only stay in the lower realm for a thousand years. This gluttonous beast achieved deity transformation ten thousand years ago. How is it still able to live until now?
远处的战场上突然爆发出了剧烈的灵气波动，打断了你的思绪。¤A sudden burst of intense spiritual energy on the distant battlefield interrupted your thoughts.
四个化神后期强者神通的对撞，扰乱了整片海域的灵气，一时之间连神识探查到的景象也变得晦涩不清起来。¤Four late void transformation experts clashed with their divine skills, disturbing the spiritual energy of the entire sea area. For a moment, even the scene detected by their soul senses became unclear and murky.
噗……老鬼你竟敢！¤Puff…Old Ghost, how dare you!
而就在这一息之间，恶饕老祖已经冲向了此前魔门与正道对峙之地，两条手臂上赫然伸出无数藤曼，卷向血亢剑仙与红莲尊者手中的魔剑。¤In just this moment, Patriarch Gluttonous had already rushed towards the spot where the Demon Sect and the Righteous Path had faced off, his two arms extending numerous vines that wrapped around the demon sword in the hands of High Blood Sword Immortal and Venerable Red Lotus.
你就只有这点实力么？在我看来也不过如此。¤Is this all the strength you possess? In my eyes, it's nothing special.
那老鬼也不知用了什么秘术，现在即便开启领域我也未必是他的对手。¤That old ghost used some secret arts, now even if I were to activate my domain, I might not be his opponent.
伴随着一阵诡异的声音，老者的一只手臂瞬间扭曲变形，膨胀了数倍的巨大手掌直接捏碎了黑气。而他的小腹处也幻化出一只麒麟兽头，一口咬碎了血剑。¤With a strange sound accompanying it, the old man's arm twisted and distorted in an instant, and his huge palm, which had swollen several times, directly crushed the black air. At the same time, a Qilin beast head appeared on his stomach, biting and crushing the blood sword with one bite.
你只得收回神念，却发现本应在你身前的老者此时却不见了踪影。¤You can only withdraw your divine consciousness, but you find that the old man who should have been in front of you is now nowhere to be seen.
原来凌轩手上的那柄不是戮仙剑，而是失踪已久的诛仙剑。这下就有意思了...¤It turns out that the sword in Ling Xuan's hand is not the Immortal Executing Sword, but the long-lost Immortal Sword. This just got interesting...
但若能拥有上古神兽血脉...寿元便可突破十万年，甚至更久...¤But if one can possess the bloodline of an ancient divine beast... their lifespan can breakthrough 100,000 years, even longer...
没想到此人竟是恶饕。¤I didn't expect this person to be a glutton.
快追！¤Chase quickly!
此时你的灵气早已枯竭，只能用缓慢回复的灵气勉强抵挡着老者，即使有魏无极的辅助，还是有不少的神通穿透防御击打到你的身上。¤At this moment, your spiritual energy has already dried up, and you can only rely on the slow recovery of spiritual energy to barely resist the old man. Even with Wei Wuji's assistance, there were still many divine skills that penetrated your defense and struck your body.
他正待发力，却感觉这怪物的身体内似乎有什么东西顶住了他的剑，不由得愣了一愣。¤He was about to exert his strength, but felt that something inside the monster's body was resisting his sword. He couldn't help but pause for a moment.
恶饕？我记得那是古神教创教老祖吧。¤Evil glutton? I remember that is the ancient god sect's founding ancestor.
刚刚的煞气是...戮仙剑？¤The killing intent just now was...the Immortal Executing Sword?
今日四剑齐聚，确实是个难得的机会。¤Today, the four swords gather together, it is indeed a rare opportunity.
这...这到底是什么东西？¤What...what is this thing exactly?
一道红光闪过，浓郁的血煞之气顿时布满整片空间，即便是化神强者也不由得感到一阵晕眩。¤A red light flashed by, and the air was immediately filled with a thick blood fury qi. Even deity transformation experts couldn't help but feel a daze.
伴随着一阵诡异的声音，老人原本有些瘦弱的身躯迅速扩大了两圈，上身包裹着的衣物已经被撑裂，就连肤色都变成了灰暗的墨绿色。¤With a strange sound, the old man's originally weak body quickly expanded two circles. The clothes wrapped around his upper body were already burst open, and even his skin color turned into a grayish green.
血亢剑仙想要拔出魔剑，但剑却被恶饕的身体紧紧的吸住了。不得已之下，他只能松手向后闪去。¤High Blood Sword Immortal wanted to pull out the Demon Sword, but the sword was tightly stuck to the body of the Evil Glutton. In desperation, he had to let go and dodge backwards.
只听一声巨响，这古神教老怪最后的防御也被你的神通击破，连带着远处的小岛都在战斗的余波下支离破碎。¤With a loud bang, your divine skill shattered the ancient god sect elder's final defence, causing even the distant island to crumble in the aftermath of the combat.
吼...本座怎么有种熟悉的感觉？¤Roar... Why do I have a familiar feeling?
吼，小贼吃我一击！¤Roar! A little thief, take this blow from me!
“嗖...”¤Swoosh...
等等...是恶饕？这老怪物竟然还没死？¤Wait...is that a gluttonous monster? This old monster isn't dead yet?
不好...陷仙剑被...¤Oh no... the Sword of Immortality has been...
红莲尊者一时不查，被老者从身后偷袭，正面又吃了麒麟一击，俨然已受到重创，一时之间竟无法凝聚力量反击，眼睁睁地看着手中的魔剑被老者夺下。¤The Venerable Red Lotus was caught off guard and sneak attacked from behind by the old man. He also took a direct hit from the qilin and was severely injured. In that moment, he was unable to gather his strength for a counterattack and helplessly watched as his demon sword was taken by the old man.
在两个化神后期强者的全力攻击之下，就算这老者同是化神后期恐怕也难以全身而退。¤Under the full-force strike of two Late Void Transformation experts, even if this old man is also in the Late Void Transformation stage, he will probably not be able to leave unscathed.
此时再看这老者，哪还有原来人类的模样，原本有些瘦弱的身躯膨胀开来，上身包裹着的衣物已经被撑裂，就连肤色都变成了灰暗的墨绿色，散发出恐怖的气息。¤At this moment, looking at this old man, there was no longer the appearance of a human being. The slightly weak body had swelled up, and the clothes on the upper body had been torn apart. Even the skin color had turned into a grayish-green color, emitting a terrifying aura.
咳咳...没想到...会被逼到这一步...¤*Ahem... I didn't expect to be forced to this point...*
不过他眼下目标必然是那柄诛仙剑，我们在一旁静观其变，待我调整好伤势后再伺机而动。¤However, his current target must be the Immortal Sword. We will watch in silence on the side and wait for me to heal my injuries before taking action.
罢了...老夫苦等了数万年...也是时候做个了结了。¤That's it... I've been waiting for tens of thousands of years... it's time to bring it to a close.
嘁！¤Tsk!
你的伤势越来越重，但老者的攻击的频率也越来越慢。¤Your injuries are getting worse, but the frequency of the old man's strikes is also slowing down.
原来凌轩手上的那柄不是戮仙剑，而是失踪已久的诛仙剑。¤It turns out that the sword in Ling Xuan's hand is not the Immortal Executing Sword, but the long-lost Immortal Sword.
不好……¤Not good...
难道他的灵气也快耗尽了？¤Could it be that his spiritual energy is also running low?
血亢很快就清醒了过来，但此时身前哪还有那老者的身影。¤Xue Kang quickly woke up, but at this moment there was no trace of the old man in front of him.
而另一边的红莲尊者更是还未来得及反应，便被夺取了手中的魔剑。¤On the other side, the venerable Red Lotus had yet to react before the demon sword was taken from their grasp.
那老鬼也不知用了什么秘术，适才与他对阵之时，我也受了些许损伤。¤That old ghost used some secret arts just now. I was also slightly injured during our confrontation.
恰在此刻，上空的劫云又凝聚起了惊人的威势，横跨过整个天空的闪电爆发又湮灭，让四周的灵气越发紊乱。¤At this moment, the calamity clouds in the sky condensed with astonishing power once again, and the lightning that crossed the entire sky annihilated, causing even more chaotic spiritual energy in the surroundings.
恰在此刻，正在渡劫中的白帝又凝聚起了一剑劈向劫云，劫云散开的灵气让这片海域越发紊乱。¤At this moment, the White Emperor who was in the midst of tribulation once again condensed a sword and cleaved it towards the tribulation clouds. The dispersing spiritual energy of the tribulation clouds caused the sea area to become even more chaotic.
见自己的攻击再一次被诛仙剑挡下，老者却丝毫没有急着夺剑的意思，反倒是一边打量着诛仙剑，一边继续慢慢向你攻来。¤Seeing his attack once again blocked by the Immortal Sword, the old man showed no intention of snatching the sword. Instead, he continued to assess the sword while slowly approaching you with his strikes.
但就在这楞神的刹那之间，恶饕老祖的小腹竟幻化出一只麒麟兽头，向着血亢持剑之手咬了上去。¤But in the instant that he was dazed, the Patriarch Gluttonous's abdomen transformed into the head of a Qilin beast and bit towards the hand holding the Blood Fiend Sword.
你凝神看去，却是麒麟与天魔道的化神强者正战斗至关键时刻。而在不远处，血亢也凝聚起了一把惊天血剑，与混元子的虚空一指撞在了一起。¤As you focus your gaze, the primordial child and a heavenly demon cult disciple are locked in combat with powerful deity transformations. Meanwhile, not far away, Bloodcrazed has conjured a terrifying blood sword and clashed with Chaos' focused sense, unleashing a devastating blow.
是我大意了，没想到这老鬼会突然向我们发难。¤I was careless. I didn't expect this old ghost to suddenly attack us.
不过他眼下树敌太多，我们先跟上去静观其变就好。¤However, he has too many enemies now. Let's just follow him silently and watch the situation unfold.
没错，只有戮仙剑的血煞之气才能让我心神失守...¤That's right, only the blood fury qi of the immortal executing sword can make my mind lose control...
正当你戒备地环视四周寻找这个老者时，却发现在血亢剑仙的面前闪过了一道红光，浓郁的血煞之气弥漫而出，即便是在稍远之处的化神强者也不由得感到一阵晕眩，血亢更是首当其冲。¤As you were cautiously scanning around for the old man, you suddenly noticed a flash of red light pass by High Blood Sword Immortal. A thick Blood Fury Qi filled the air, causing even the Deity Transformation experts at a distance to feel dizzy. Blood Fury Qi had hit High Blood Sword Immortal the hardest.
笑话。¤Joke.
你们...将死无全尸。¤You...will die without a complete corpse. Checkmate.
驱使着三柄魔剑的恶饕老祖直直向你冲来，而已经停下手的宁州化神们也正追着他飞速赶来...¤The patriarch gluttonous, who wields three demon swords, charges straight towards you, while the deity transformations in Ningzhou, who had stopped fighting, also pursue him at high speed...
猎魔试炼名次固然重要，但也切勿因此伤了同门情谊。¤Ranking in the demon hunting trial is certainly important, but do not damage the bond between fellow disciples because of it.
我派素来愿帮助陷于沙漠的凡人或修士脱困，你若在门派外围见到有人落难，大可伸出援手。¤Our sect has always been willing to help mortal or cultivator trapped in the desert. If you see someone in need around the sect, feel free to lend a hand.
抱歉，长老事务繁忙，暂不见客，前辈请回吧。¤Sorry, the elder is preoccupied with affairs and cannot receive guests at the moment. Senior, please leave.
抱歉，长老事务繁忙，道友请回吧。¤Sorry, the elder is busy with affairs. Fellow daoist, please come back later.
原来是{FirstName}前辈，请问来我{$shili}有何贵干？¤So it's Senior {FirstName}, may I ask what brings you to my {$shili}?
原来是{FirstName}道友，请问来我{$shili}何事？¤So it turns out you are fellow daoist {FirstName}, may I ask what business brings you to my {$shili}?
抱歉，长老事务繁忙，暂不见客，{FirstName}前辈请回吧。¤Sorry, the elders are busy with affairs and cannot see guests at the moment. Senior {FirstName}, please come back later.
不知道友来我{$shili}何事？¤I don't know why my fellow daoist has come to my {$shili}?
前辈请随我来。¤Senior, please follow me.
原来是{FirstName}前辈，有失远迎。请问来我{$shili}有何贵干？¤So it turns out to be Senior {FirstName}, please forgive me for not recognizing you earlier. May I ask what brings you to my {$shili}?
{$shili}自上次后一直龟缩在山门大阵中，鲜有弟子离开，还是别在这无趣的门派上浪费时间了。¤{$shili} has been hiding in the sect's large array since the last time, with few disciples leaving. It's better not to waste time here in this boring sect.
你悠闲地来到{$shili}山门，作为原本宁州五行宗门之一的郊近，如今却是四下无人。只有运转中的大阵依旧在无声地诉说着该宗门仍未消亡。¤You leisurely arrived at the entrance of the {$shili} Mountain, which was once close to one of the Ningzhou Five Elements sects, but now there was nobody around. Only the rotating formation was still silently telling that the sect had not yet perished.
长老正在宗门大殿中等候，{FirstName}前辈请随我来。¤The elders are waiting in the great hall of the clan. Please follow me, senior {FirstName}.
什么魑魅魍魉都敢闯我{$shili}，快滚，这里不欢迎你。¤What ghosts and demons dare to trespass in my {$shili}, leave now, you are not welcome here.
该外门弟子虽然可能无法分辨白帝令和该信物的区别，但还是恭敬地回答了你。¤Although this outer disciple may not be able to distinguish between the White Emperor's Decree and this token, they still respectfully answered you.
不知前辈来我{$shili}有何贵干？¤I wonder what brings senior to my {$shili}?
你……你是{FirstName}{LastName}！快去禀告掌门！¤You... You are {FirstName}{LastName}! Hurry and report to the master!
白帝楼有些事要与贵派掌门商量。¤The White Emperor Pavilion has some matters that need to be discussed with your sect's master.
不……不好！是{FirstName}{LastName}，快去禀告长老！¤No...not good! It's {FirstName}{LastName}, quickly go report to the elder!
长老正在宗门大殿中等候，前辈请随我来。¤The elders are waiting in the great hall of the clan, seniors please follow me.
哼，正派之耻，这里不欢迎你。¤Hmph, it is a shame for the righteous sect. We do not welcome you here.
抱歉，长老事务繁忙，{FirstName}道友请回吧。¤Sorry, Elder is occupied with important matters. Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, please come back later.
虽然我们金虹剑派在这次试炼中位列魁首，但却有两位师弟在魔物的手下丧了命。¤Although our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect was at the forefront of this trial, we lost two junior disciples at the hands of the spirit beasts.
{$TmpTalkString}，何事？{w}{w=0.5}¤{$TmpTalkString}, what's the matter? {w}{w=0.5}
{$TmpTalkString}，最近修为可有长进？¤{$TmpTalkString}，Recently, my cultivation has improved a lot.？
此次能战胜地魔你功不可没，不愧是我们金虹剑派的弟子！¤You have contributed greatly to our victory against the earth demon, you truly live up to being a disciple of our Radiant Sword Sect!
你陷入了空灵的状态，但以你目前对阵道的领悟，你觉得距离顿悟相差一步。¤You have entered a state of emptiness, but with your current enlightenment of array dao, you feel that you are only one step away from enlightenment.
你陷入了空灵的状态，但以你目前对炼器之道的领悟，你觉得距离顿悟相差一步。¤You have entered a state of emptiness, but with your current enlightenment of refining, you feel that you are one step away from enlightenment.
你陷入了空灵的状态，有所顿悟。¤You entered a trance-like state and gained some enlightenment.
你陷入了空灵的状态，但以你目前对剑道的领悟，你觉得距离顿悟相差一步。¤You have entered a state of emptiness, but with your current enlightenment of the sword dao, you feel that you are one step away from enlightenment.
你抬头看到，一柄剑身铭刻了{SayStcVal=X}灵纹的仙剑漂浮于空中，浩荡的剑气环绕在其周围。¤You look up and see a fairy sword with a sword body engraved with {SayStcVal=X}spirit marks floating in the air, surrounded by surging sword qi.
地点上传错误¤Location upload error.
老头，你还好吗？¤Old man, are you okay?
阴魂岛结束了它不知多少万年的闹剧，回归一片荒芜。¤Ghost Island has come to an end after its countless years of turmoil, returning to a barren wasteland.
但...我见你落了下风才...¤But... I only saw you falling behind...
追了半晌后，因为遁速不济，已是不见二人踪影。你不想浪费更多时间，只好选择放弃。¤After chasing for half a day, due to poor speed, the two figures were nowhere to be seen. You didn't want to waste any more time, so you had no choice but to give up.
不多时，你便是发现这二人正运起法器激战，只是那女性修士略显颓势。你也没多想便已是手捏法诀，介入战局。¤Before long, you noticed that the two of them were engaging in a fierce battle using magic tools, but the female cultivator seemed to be at a disadvantage. Without much hesitation, you quickly started to form hand seals and intervened in the battle.
反倒是那女修见有陌生修士突入，一时竟愣在原地，只留你二人打斗。¤On the contrary, when the female cultivator saw a stranger cultivator suddenly enter, she was stunned in place, leaving only the two of you to fight.
道友，他没伤到你吧。¤Fellow daoist, did he not hurt you?
这人不知是先前耗费了太多灵力还是如何，竟在数招过后，被你的神通直接击破护盾，连带着身体也被击穿，就此毙命。¤This person, whether due to previously expending too much spiritual energy or some other reason, was directly shattered, along with their body, by your divine skill after only a few moves, resulting in their death.
少女的话语声脆如银铃，很是好听。只是像在自言自语，声音小到让你完全无法听清她在说什么。¤The girl's voice was as clear as a silver bell, very pleasant to hear. However, it was like she was talking to herself, her voice so low that you couldn't hear what she was saying at all.
那人对你也不感兴趣，又与先前的女修斗在一处。¤That person is not interested in you either, and is fighting alongside the female cultivator from before.
她将一个法器丢过来，并向你扮了个鬼脸，然后运起遁术，仅是眨眼间便已消失在你视野内。¤She threw a magic tool towards you, made a grimace, and then activated her mobility technique, disappearing from your sight in just a blink of an eye.
算了...终归是一番好意，这法器就当谢礼送你好了。¤Forget it...it was a kind gesture after all. Take this magic tool as a token of my gratitude and leave.
要是我认真起来，他才不是我对手呢，哼。¤If I take it seriously, he's not my opponent at all, hmph.
道友？¤Fellow Daoist?
哼，能有啥事，本还想从他嘴里问出这帮修炼采补之术的妖人来自何处，现在倒好，托你的福，我又得去找其他妖人了。¤Hmph, there couldn't be anything important. I was hoping to ask him where these demonic cultivators who specialize in gathering resources for their cultivation came from. But now, thanks to you, I have to go look for other demonic cultivators.
你暗自盘算下敌我实力差距，有了大致结论后运起遁速头也不回地离开了。\n¤You secretly calculated the gap between our strengths, and after coming to a rough conclusion, you swiftly used your speed to leave without looking back.
可恶，就不应该想着...否则早就...¤Damn it, I shouldn't have thought about it... Otherwise, it would have been...
这地方似乎不是很欢迎我...{w}{w=0.5}¤This place doesn't seem to be very welcoming to me...{w}{w=0.5}
你在附近的岛屿上寻了一处开阔的空地准备迎接天劫。¤You searched for an open space on the nearby islands to prepare for the catastrophe.
哈哈哈，难怪这浪方逃的这么快，原来是怕被这天劫给波及了。¤Hahaha, no wonder Lang Fang is running so fast, turns out he's afraid of being affected by this heavenly calamity.
与之前给我的那本无二，看来岛主并没有诓骗我们。¤The one I received before was no different, it seems that the island owner didn't deceive us.
…总之，在下知道的都尽数告诉前辈了。¤In short, I have told everything that this junior knows to the senior.
你转头向声源望去——一块巨石背后，非也解除了敛息功法、小心翼翼地向你跑来。¤You turned your head to look at the source of the sound behind a large boulder, someone had released their restraint technique and was carefully running towards you.
…你是说？岛主便是在等她飞升的那一天？¤...What do you mean? The island master is waiting for her to ascend that day?
如果说岛主是真的在谋求复生之法，岂不是错怪岛主了？¤If the island owner is really seeking a way to reincarnate, wouldn't it be wrong to blame the island owner?
此番…有劳前辈费心了。¤This time... senior, thank you for your efforts.
仔细想想，此条件虽然苛刻，但却并非无法实现，老夫在这铁剑中也不急这一时，有此逆天造化术也算是万幸了。¤Upon careful consideration, although this requirement is strict, it is not impossible to achieve. I am not in a rush to fulfill this condition within this iron sword, and having access to the defying good fortune technique is fortunate indeed.
你神识扫去，迅速浏览过其中的玄机。¤Your soul sense swept over and quickly scanned the mysteries within.
你可知道岛主那复生秘术的原理？¤Do you know the principle of the island master's resurrection secret arts?
…既然如此，宝物一事便只得作罢了。¤Since that's the case, let's just forget about the treasure.
我没事，这是什么情况？¤I'm fine, what's going on?
嗯，我原以为这只是岛主用来控制其他魂体的噱头罢了。现在看来，岛主倒真有可能在筹划复生之事。¤Well, I originally thought that this was just a gimmick that the Island Master used to control other soul bodies. Now it seems that the Island Master may really be planning to revive.
将他打发走后，你找到了岛主原先所在的位置。¤After sending him away, you found the original location of the island master.
还好它对我没兴趣，不然我恐怕也难逃此劫…¤Luckily it's not interested in me, otherwise I'm afraid I wouldn't be able to escape this disaster...
无非只是一群想要重生的可怜人罢了。¤It’s just a group of pitiful people who want to be reborn, nothing more.
回到地面，这哪里还是什么阴魂岛——所有的魂体都消失不见，这座岛空旷的就好像它们一开始便不存在一样。¤Returning to the ground, this is no longer the Ghost Island it once was all the soul bodies have vanished without a trace, leaving the island as empty as if they had never existed in the first place.
道别后，你们便各自离开了。¤After saying goodbye, you all left separately.
据岛主所说，它恰巧需要在其他修士飞升之时施展。¤According to the island master, it just so happens that it needs to be activated when other cultivators are ascending.
他又叹了一口气，便不再作声，只是低头思考着自己的事情。¤He sighed again and fell silent, only bowing his head to contemplate his own affairs.
走吧。¤Let's go.
倒是此人与岛主的图谋，可有什么关联？¤What connection does this person have with the island master's plan?
骚动平息后，非也悄悄靠了过来。¤After the commotion had subsided, Fei couldn't help but sneak over quietly.
道友可有找到什么宝物？¤Fellow daoist, have you found any treasures?
只见地上静静地躺着一枚玉简，赫然便是那逆天造化术的原本。¤I saw a jade slip lying quietly on the ground, which was none other than the original copy of the defying good fortune technique.
…道友若想要神阴石，气旋下面倒是有不少。¤Fellow Daoist, if you want the Shenyin Stone, there are quite a few under the cyclone.
那个时候，又会发生什么呢？¤What will happen then?
没错，岛主向他们许诺的复生之时，就在{$时间}年后。¤Yes, the time for their resurrection promised by the island master is {$time} years later.
需要在他人飞升时使用？条件竟会如此苛刻？¤Is it necessary to use it when someone else ascends? Are the requirements really so strict?
你将气旋下面的事情大致地讲述了一遍。起初他一脸难以置信的神情，慢慢的变得越来越阴沉。¤You roughly narrated the situation beneath the vortex. At first, he wore an expression of disbelief but gradually grew increasingly gloomy.
…人？¤...person?
在下原以为这只是岛主用来控制其他魂体的噱头罢了，现在看来，岛主倒真有可能在筹划复生之事。¤I originally thought that this was just a gimmick that the island lord used to control other soul bodies, but now it seems that the island lord might really be planning to resurrect himself.
前辈可知道岛主那复生秘术的原理？¤Senior, do you know the principle behind the Island Lord's resurrection secret arts?
此术本座已经看过，它恰巧需要在其他修士飞升之时施展。¤I have already read this technique. It happens to be used when other cultivators are ascending.
非也突然抬起头来，好像想起了什么东西。¤Fei also suddenly lifted his head, as if he remembered something.
你神识扫去，迅速浏览过其中的内容。¤You scan with your soul sense, quickly browsing through the contents.
道友？你还活着？¤Fellow Daoist? Are you still alive?
刚刚气旋中出现一道人影，将阴魂岛上的灵魂吸噬殆尽后便消失了。¤Just now, a figure appeared in the cyclone and after devouring almost all the souls on Ghost Island, it disappeared.
前辈可有找到什么宝物？¤Senior, have you found any treasures?
既然此地已然捞不到什么好处，我便上别处寻觅机缘了。¤Since there are no good fortunes to be found here, I will search for opportunities elsewhere.
既然已经查明没有宝物，再想此事也是无用。¤Since it has been determined that there is no treasure, thinking about it further is useless.
将他支开后，你找到了岛主原先所在的位置。¤After he was pushed away, you found the original location of the island master.
你们不约而同的沉默了下来，各自思考着其中利弊。¤You all fell silent simultaneously, pondering the pros and cons in your own minds.
道友，后会有期。¤Fellow daoist, till we meet again.
道友，既然已经查明没有宝物，再想此事也是无用。¤Fellow Daoist, since we have already confirmed that there is no treasure here, there is no point in dwelling on this matter any further.
有价值的东西倒是没有，只是见到了一个人。¤There is nothing valuable, only the opportunity to see a person.
我原以为这只是岛主用来控制其他魂体的噱头罢了，现在看来，岛主倒真有可能在筹划复生之事。¤I originally thought this was just a gimmick the island master used to control other soul bodies, but now it seems that the island master may really be planning to revive.
它恰巧需要在其他修士飞升之时施展。¤It just happens to need to be used when other cultivators ascend.
…总之，我知道的都尽数告诉道友了，也不枉道友这次以身犯险。¤In any case, I have told everything I know to my fellow daoist, and it was not in vain for my fellow daoist to risk their life this time.
既然此间事了，你当即便离开此地，踏上了新的旅程。¤Since this matter has been settled, you should leave immediately and embark on a new journey.
此事想来也不会有多简单，现在至少存了一分念想。¤This matter isn't likely to be very easy, but at least there's still some consideration.
…你若想要神阴石，气旋下面倒是有不少。¤If you're looking for shenyin stones, there are plenty of them beneath the whirlpool.
起初你说气旋下有个人，我是断然不相信的，不过联想到另一件事，这倒也在情理之中。¤At first, when you said there was someone beneath the cyclone, I absolutely couldn't believe it. But then I thought of something else and it started to make sense.
前辈？¤Senior?
这是什么情况，魂体为何都消失不见了？¤What's going on? Why have all the soul bodies disappeared without a trace?
非也¤Not so.
获得{color=#d0380a}《逆天造化术》{/color}¤Gain the ability of Defying Good Fortune.
既然此地已然捞不到什么好处，在下便上别处寻觅机缘了。¤Since there's no benefit to be gained here, I'll search for opportunities elsewhere.
当真？那便多谢前辈了。¤Really? Then thank you, senior.
未曾知晓。¤Never known.
当真？那便多谢道友了。¤Really? Thank you, fellow daoist.
我好像没有察觉到魔气的痕迹，倒是灵气有些稀薄。¤I don't seem to sense any traces of magic qi, but the spiritual energy is somewhat sparse.
而炎萧则在灵舟上寻了一间房安心闭关疗伤。于是乎，你也没有将这不好的消息告诉他的意思，免得打扰到他。只是下意识地在操控灵舟前进的同时，为其注入些灵气以让前行速度更快，而不是单单用灵舟上的聚灵阵吸收天地灵气前进。¤While Yan Xiao was healing in a room on the Spirit Boat, you decided not to tell him the bad news so as not to disturb him. Instead, you unconsciously infused some spiritual energy into the boat to make it go faster, rather than relying solely on the Gathering Spirit Array on the boat to absorb spiritual energy from the heavens and earth.
但炎萧重伤初愈，体内魔气还未完全排除，恐怕功法运转间都尚还有些凝滞。想到这层，你自信地迎上那气势最强的魔修。¤But Yan Xiao had just recovered from a serious injury, and his body still had some residual magic qi that had not been completely expelled. He was afraid that his technique would still be slightly condensed and stagnant when operated. Thinking about this, you confidently confronted the strongest aura of the demonic cultivator.
这里看起来也不像曾发生过什么，玄道宗怎么就闭门谢客了？¤It doesn't seem like anything has happened here before. Why is Xuan Dao Sect refusing guests and closing its doors?
你看准一个气势最为强大的元婴后期魔修便迎了上去，剩下的元婴初期以及金丹后期魔修便暂时交给实力未完全恢复的炎萧了。¤You spot a late nascent soul demon cultivator with the strongest aura and charge forward, leaving the early nascent soul and late golden core demon cultivators to Yan Xiao, who hasn't fully recovered their strength yet.
有事则长，无事则短。¤When there is something to do, it is long; when there is nothing to do, it is short.
好在除了传音符外，这一路再没出什么意外，让你也是安心了不少。¤Fortunately, apart from the Sound Talisman, nothing unexpected happened along the way, which also put your mind at ease.
但你和炎萧皆是身经百战，运转功法，驱动法宝，蓄力神通，一气呵成，全无慌乱之色。¤But both you and Yan Xiao have been through countless battles, using techniques, operating artifacts, gathering power surges, seamlessly coordinating your efforts without any signs of panic.
那些个金丹期修士甚至没来得及发出声响便已是化作飞灰散落于此，而剩余两个元婴期修士也是满脸绝望之色。¤Those golden core cultivators didn't even have time to make a sound before they turned into flying ash and scattered here. As for the remaining two nascent soul cultivators, their faces were filled with despair.
只是我此前被围攻时有些魔气顺伤口入体，眼下还有少数残留体中。本想着之后再慢慢将之排出，现在却能感觉到那部分魔气在蠢蠢欲动，想必是受附近魔气的引动没错了。¤I have some magic qi that entered my body through wounds when I was previously besieged. There are still a few remnants in my body right now. I had intended to slowly expel it later, but now I can feel that the part of the magic qi is stirring and must be attracted by nearby magic qi.
不知道，但附近似乎有魔气残留。¤I'm not sure, but there seems to be residual magic qi nearby.
思虑既定，你驱使着灵舟绕过广陵城大阵，直接往那坐落于宁州东南角的玄道宗而去。¤With your plan set, you command the spirit boat to steer clear of the Great Array surrounding Guangling City, heading straight towards the Xuan Dao Sect situated in the southeastern corner of Ningzhou.
一边说着，你一边感应这附近的灵气波动。果然不出你所料有微弱的魔气残留，似乎还被始作俑者处理过，若不是你修为高于此人，怕是很难察觉。¤As you spoke, you sensed the fluctuation of spiritual energy nearby. As expected, there were faint traces of magical qi, seemingly manipulated by the instigator. If your cultivation had not surpassed theirs, it would have been difficult to detect.
待灵舟落于玄道宗山门前，你与炎萧早已伫立于船头。将灵舟收回储物袋中后，二人便是向玄道宗封闭的山门而去。¤Upon the spirit boat's landing at the entrance of Xuan Dao Sect, you and Yan Xiao had already been standing at the bow of the boat waiting. After retrieving the spirit boat into the storage pouch, the two of you proceeded towards the sealed mountain gate of Xuan Dao Sect.
结束？呵呵，似乎还没。¤End? Haha, it seems not yet.
又是数月过去，广陵城似是染坊围挡的城墙终于出现在你的眼帘中，各路修士穿梭于港口的阵法出入口，或是乘舟狩海兽归来，或是御剑觅奇珍而去。¤Several months have passed, and finally the walls of Guangling City, which seemed to be surrounded by dyers' enclosures, appeared before your eyes. Cultivators from all over were weaving in and out of the array at the port, either returning from hunting sea beasts by boat or setting out on sword journeys in search of exotic treasures.
你仔细感应了一番，但周遭除灵气有些稀薄之外，并未有炎萧所说的魔气。至少不是你能感应到的浓郁程度。¤You carefully sensed your surroundings, but apart from the thin spiritual energy, there was no magic qi like Yan Xiao had mentioned. At least not to the extent that you could sense it.
魔气的痕迹么，我也没有发现。¤I haven't found any traces of magic qi.
（玄道宗缩在宗门内不出来，只怕是之前战败了，担心附近还有魔修残留。但似乎是没有其他门派前来支援，难道...）¤(The Xuan Dao Sect is staying inside their sect and not coming out. It's probably because they were defeated in a previous battle and they're worried about leftover demon cultivators nearby. But it seems like no other sects have come to support them, could it be...)
只见你冷哼一声，指掌间灵气隐现，只随手一挥便是勾动天地间灵气响应。¤I only saw you snort coldly, and the aura between your fingertips emerged, responding to the spiritual energy between heaven and earth with just a wave of your hand.
数个隐藏在附近的魔修向你二人袭击而来，霎时间这玄道宗的山门处已经是魔气纵横。¤Several hidden demonic cultivators nearby rushed towards the two of you, and in an instant, the entrance of the Xuan Dao Sect was filled with magic qi.
你只匆忙扫了一眼这嵌在翠绿色山林间闪烁着玄紫色光芒的封印大阵，未发现有何变化后便驱动灵舟匆忙而去。¤You quickly glanced at the seal formation that was embedded in the jade green forest, shimmering with a purple light, but didn't notice any changes. After that, you hastily activated the spirit boat and left.
（既然如此，等到了玄道宗再叫炎萧{$ChenHu}出关吧。）¤(Since that's the case, let's wait until we arrive at the Xuan Dao Sect before calling for Yan Xiao {$ChenHu} to come out of seclusion.)
从广陵城外到玄道宗也算不上远，入定再醒转后恰巧是路过天魔眼，离目的地也不过再有半日多光景。¤From outside Guangling City to Xuan Dao Sect, it can't be considered far. After entering a state of meditation and awakening, it just so happened to pass by the Heavenly Devil's Eye, and it is only half a day's journey away from the destination.
逝者如川流，一去不还，不舍昼夜。¤The deceased passes away like a flowing river, never to return, leaving us unable to part day or night.
（看来传音符可能只是在阵法中受到了什么影响，导致无法发出消息而已。之前担心的宁州已经沦陷并没有发生。）¤(It seems that the sound talisman may have just been affected by the array, causing it to be unable to transmit messages. The previous concern about Ningzhou being captured did not happen.)
其中两人实力明显是要高过你，且无法感知具体差多少，而其他数位都不过金丹后期而已，倒是不惧。¤Two of them clearly have stronger abilities than you, and it's impossible to sense how much stronger. The rest are just in the late golden core stage, but they're not afraid.
此处虽有战斗的痕迹，但似乎结束很久了。可不知为何玄道宗依旧全力运转着护宗大阵。¤Although there are traces of combat here, it seems to have ended a long time ago. However, for some unknown reason, the Xuan Dao Sect is still operating the protective formation at full force.
（这数年间连日驾驭灵舟，我也有些乏了，不如在路上运功调息一番，若真有什么意外，到时候也更好应对。）¤(These past few years of continuously maneuvering the spirit boat have left me somewhat fatigued. It's better to cultivate breath adjustment during the journey. In case any accidents occur, I will be better prepared.)
我...我顶住他，你快去天魔眼通知其他人！¤I...I'll hold him back, you quickly go inform the others through the Heavenly Devil's Eye!
距你们动身赶往宁州已是有些时日。¤It has been quite some time since we departed and headed towards Ningzhou.
（应该是没错，这魔教和之前伏击炎萧的是同一势力，有毁坏传音符之能，所以玄道宗修士若是不敢以身犯险，根本联系不上其他门派。）¤(It should be correct. This demonic cult is the same force that previously ambushed Yan Xiao. They have the ability to destroy sound talismans, so if the cultivators of Xuan Dao Sect do not dare to take risks, they cannot contact other sects at all.)
（既然如此...）¤(Since that's the case...)
当然，也有不少体修者仗着肉身强悍，轻装戏浪，以借无尽之势而淬形骸。但总有一两人在数个浪头后便是消弭无踪，再难寻其踪迹。¤Of course, there are also many physical cultivators who rely on their strong bodies, lightly equipped and play around, using the endless power to temper their bodies. However, there are always one or two people who disappear without a trace after a few waves, making it difficult to find their whereabouts.
你看着眼前没什么变化的广陵城，心中的担忧更是放下不少。¤As you gaze at Guangling City, which seems unchanged before your eyes, your worries begin to dissipate.
你展开神识探查，果然有数个魔修凭借秘法隐藏于附近，但于你而言，他们更像是光明正大地杵在各处。¤You spread your soul sense to explore and indeed found several demon cultivators hidden nearby through secret techniques, but to you, they appeared more like standing openly and honestly everywhere.
这一路你操控灵舟的同时还一直在联系宁州的各位道友，却一直没有得到回复，倒是仍能收到其他不相关的消息。¤Throughout this journey, while controlling the spirit boat, you have been trying to contact fellow daoists in Ningzhou, but have yet to receive a response. However, you are still able to receive other unrelated messages.
也可能是...¤It could also be...
师兄！¤Senior brother!
又有一人，向你冲来！¤Another person is rushing towards you!
一名离火门的巡逻弟子从前方经过，但因为修为太低，并没有发现你的存在。¤A disciple from the Fire Gate Sect passed by, but because their cultivation was too low, they did not notice your presence.
嗯？敌袭！¤Hmm? Enemy attack!
一名巡逻弟子向你袭来。¤A patrolling disciple attacks you.
一名巡逻弟子向你点头示意。¤A patrolling disciple nods at you.
站住！此地离火门所属，闲杂人等速速离去！¤Stop! This is the territory of the Fire Gate Sect. Any unrelated person should quickly get out of the way!
锈渍铁剑从你的背后挣脱出来，飞至半空之中，红光大盛，将剑灵周身翻涌的魔气不断吸入。那剑灵才被你重创，没能挣扎几下，就彻底消失不见了。¤The rusted iron sword escaped from behind you and flew into the air, glowing red and absorbing the magic qi surging around the sword spirit. The sword spirit was heavily damaged by you and couldn't struggle for long before it completely disappeared.
要是再能找到这样的宝地让此剑吸收魔气，它的威能大概可以更进一层。对于我魂魄的修复想来也是大有益处！¤If I could find another place like this for the sword to absorb magic qi, its power would probably advance to a higher level. This would also greatly benefit the restoration of my soul!
它刚刚吸收完魔气，应该就已经提升了一个档次了，就连我都觉得自己的魂魄又壮大了几分。想来若是有足够的补充，它是有自行恢复的能力的。\r\n¤It just absorbed some magic qi, so it should have recovered and upgraded its strength, even I feel my soul has become stronger. If there is enough supplementation, it has the ability to recover on its own.
再加上它刚刚吸收的可是纯阳法宝级别的剑灵，虽说这剑灵才刚刚被你重创...我想这至少也得是同级别的法宝才能做得到的。¤Furthermore, coupled with the fact that it has just absorbed a pure yang magic treasure level sword spirit, albeit one that you had just severely injured... I believe that at least a treasure level artifact of the same level is required to achieve this.
总之，现在这剑灵老大被灭了，那些小剑灵应该也不会再有什么异动了，还是先离开这里吧。¤Anyway, now that the Sword Spirit leader has been eliminated, those little Sword Spirits shouldn't cause any more trouble. Let's leave here first.
看来得想办法打听打听，宁州还有哪些地方可能会产生“魔气”，也许可以获得其它的线索...¤Looks like I need to find a way to inquire about where else in Ningzhou may produce magic qi and perhaps gain other clues...
我前些日子出海遇到蓬莎岛的船队，真是让人心惊胆战...要知道他们为了资源可是连自己人都打劫，你若是出海可千万不要招惹他们。¤A few days ago, I encountered a fleet from Pongsha Island while out at sea. It was truly terrifying... You see, they'll even rob their own kind for resources, so if you're sailing, make sure not to provoke them.
（看来撑不了多久了...）¤(It seems like I can't hold on for much longer...)
正准备摄取自己的战利品时，古树驱使着其他根须向你袭来。¤Just as you were about to take your spoils, the ancient tree commanded its root whiskers to attack you.
修炼时打瞌睡被魏老敲醒。\n与阴鳞蟒战斗时受他指点。\n与他一起闯御剑门。¤While cultivating, I dozed off and was awakened by Old Wei's knocking. During combat with the Yin Scale Python, he gave me pointers. We stormed the Imperial Sword Sect together.
（我一死，老头怕是也要在这海底躺上个千百年乃至魂飞魄散了...）¤(When I die, I think the old man will also lie on the bottom of the sea for thousands of years until his spirit fades away...)
结果不但没有起到太好的作用，还令你体内本就是留存不多的灵气又离枯竭近了一步。¤The outcome not only did not have a very good effect, but also brought your spiritual energy, which was already scarce in your body, one step closer to exhaustion.
身前是插在根须上的诛仙剑，剑芒大盛。\n身后是浮在海水中的倪旭欣，行动迟缓。¤In front of me, the Immortal Sword is inserted into the Root Whiskers, its sword aura flourishing. Behind me, Ni Xuxin is floating in the seawater, moving slowly.
（等出去了，得让你好好面壁思过。）¤(Once we're out of here, I'll make you reflect on your actions in seclusion.)
在你沉浸于悲伤时，诛仙剑的剑芒逐渐暗淡了下去，古树也是再次向你和倪旭欣横扫过来。¤As you were immersed in sadness, the radiance of the Immortal Sword gradually dimmed. The ancient tree once again swept towards you and Ni Xuxin.
与他一起闯天魔眼。\n与他一起闯宁州古迹。\n与他一起在御剑门密阁猜测凌轩的下落。\n¤Accompany him to explore the Heavenly Devil's Eye.
魏无极满是戏谑的声音传入你的耳中，一点也不像老头子平时的性格。¤Wei Wuji's voice full of jesting entered your ears, completely unlike the old man's usual disposition.
留在原地的，只有断裂的树根，以及你和倪旭欣的鲜血。但也即将散去。¤Only broken tree roots, as well as your and Ni Xuxin's blood, remained in the original location. However, they will also soon dissipate.
闻言你也是强打精神，不自觉地，手头的攻击又是强了几分。¤Upon hearing this, you also forcibly gathered your spirits. Involuntarily, the attacks at your disposal grew even stronger. 
下一击已至！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤The next attack is imminent! {vpunch=10,0.5}
你只能拼命吸收附近的灵气，然后借此催动护体神通，企图从接下来的攻击中存活。¤You can only desperately absorb the spiritual energy nearby, and then use it to activate your divine skill to try to survive the upcoming strike.
往左看...往右看...往上看...甚至是神识探查地底..都不见那半透明的残魂...都没有魏无极的身影。¤Looking to the left...looking to the right...looking up...even using soul sense to probe the underground...there is no sign of the semi-transparent remnant soul...no sign of Wei Wuji's figure.
老头...¤Old man...
（哼，臭{xiaozi}都到这境地了还不想我点好。）¤(Hmph, this {xiaozi} even at this level and still doesn't want me to help.)
成了！倪兄我们快走！¤It's done! Brother Ni, let's go quickly!
结果不但没有起到太好的作用，还令你体内本就是留存不多的灵气又离枯竭近了一步，再次被古树扎根成功¤The result not only didn't have much effect, but also brought you closer to the brink of exhaustion of the little remaining spiritual energy in your body. You were once again successfully rooted by the ancient tree.
不用阴阳颠倒炼，岂无水火淬锋芒？诛仙剑，起！¤Without reversing yin and yang in refining, how could the sword be tempered by water and fire? Immortal Sword, arise!
眼见逃跑不成，也只得御剑，或是施展神通，再次与古树斗在一处。但你们之前面对单独的根须都只能勉强寻得逃跑的机会，这场战斗的结局自然是不言而喻。¤Seeing that escape was not possible, they could only draw their sword and use divine skills to once again fight with the ancient tree. However, previously when facing single root whiskers, you could only barely find a chance to escape. The outcome of this battle is self-evident.
一时是剑气破空之音四起，树根挥舞之声跌伏。¤For a moment, the sound of sword qi breaking through the sky resounded, while the sound of tree roots waving fell silent.
仔细听来，又感觉他言语中满是决绝。不过他一个元婴修士的残魂此时又能做什么呢，就算想舍身救你，恐怕也...¤Listening carefully, one could sense the resolute tone in his words. But what can the remnant soul of a nascent soul cultivator do now? Even if he wanted to sacrifice himself to save you, it's unlikely that he...
慌乱中你硬接古树一记鞭打，肉身险些崩溃。但也借力拔出了诛仙剑，并靠到倪旭欣附近，确认了他只是晕了过去。¤Amidst the chaos, you took a hit from the ancient tree, causing your body to almost collapse. However, you managed to use the momentum to pull out the Immortal Sword and stumbled towards Ni Xuxin, confirming that he had only fainted.
都怪我...是我太弱了...明明都快成功了...明明都快迈出成仙的那一步了...¤It's all my fault... I was too weak... I was so close to succeeding... I was so close to taking that step towards becoming immortal...
不由得想起初入仙途的一幕幕...¤Can't help but recall the scenes of entering the path of immortals...
我已经发传音符给师祖了！{FirstName}{xiongdi}撑住啊！¤I have already sent a sound talisman to our Master! {FirstName}, {xiongdi}, hold on!
还没等你们交流什么，下一击已至！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Before you even have a chance to exchange words, the next strike has already arrived! {vpunch=10,0.5}
你们二人正准备用遁术冲出古树的范围，却发现其他的根须也是围了上来，显然是没有放你们走的打算。¤You two were about to use mobility to escape from the range of the ancient tree, but you found that other root whiskers had also surrounded you. Obviously, they had no intention of letting you go.
在你回想时，扎根于你的树根也是被斩断，让你得以观察战场的情况。¤As you reflect back, the root that was embedded within you was also severed, allowing you to observe the situation on the battlefield.
你与根须缠斗了不知多少回合，终于是将它从古树本体上击落。数个红中带粉的未知果实也随之滚落在地。¤You have fought countless rounds with the root whiskers, finally managing to knock it off the ancient tree. Several unknown fruits with pinkish-red skin also fell to the ground with it.
古树近十人合围粗的根须在你眼前不断飞舞着，但对于你们二人而言，连扎根于身上的“细藤”都已经是疲于应付，更不用考虑更多。¤You and the other person are surrounded by a group of ten people near an ancient tree. The thick root whiskers are constantly fluttering in front of you, but for the two of you, even dealing with the fine vines rooted on your body is already exhausting, let alone considering more.
不用阴阳颠倒炼，岂无水火淬锋芒？诛仙剑，起！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Without using the principles of yin and yang in refining, how can the sword's edge be tempered by water and fire? Immortal Sword, arise! {vpunch=10,0.5}
为了你的大弟子...我们才来图南海的...你怎么可以...¤For the sake of your senior disciple... we came to the South Tu Sea... How can you...
你虽被树根困住不知外界情况，但也不难猜到几分。¤Although you were trapped by tree roots and don't know the outside situation, it's not hard to guess a few things.
你用诛仙剑硬挡了这一记挑击，但也被挑飞。如同御剑飞行一般，从原来的漩涡中心的位置急速向海面飞去。¤You used the immortal sword to block this attack, but you were still sent flying. Just like sword flight, you quickly flew towards the sea from the center of the vortex.
（宁州...无尽之海...如此之多的绝境我都闯过来了，没想到竟会陨落在海底古树的树根里变成它的养分。）¤(Ningzhou...The endless sea...I've conquered so many desperate situations, but never did I expect to fall and become a nutrient for the ancient tree under the sea.)
你用诛仙剑硬挡了这一记挑击，但也同倪旭欣一同被挑飞。如同御剑飞行一般，从原来的漩涡中心的位置急速向海面飞去。¤You blocked this strike with the Immortal Sword, but you were also sent flying along with Ni Xuxin. Like Sword Flight, you both flew rapidly towards the ocean from the center of the vortex.
慌乱中你硬接古树一记鞭打，肉身险些崩溃。但也借力拔出了诛仙剑，并靠到倪旭欣附近。¤Amidst the chaos, you forcefully struck the ancient tree with a whip attack, nearly causing your physical body to collapse. However, you were able to use the momentum to draw out the Immortal Sword and position yourself near Ni Xuxin.
一时间是根须乱舞，你和倪旭欣躲闪还来不及，更不用说古树还一直想扎根你们的肉体上汲取灵气。¤At that moment, the root whiskers danced chaotically, leaving you and Ni Xuxin no time to evade. Not to mention, the ancient tree still wanted to root itself onto your bodies to absorb spiritual energy.
为了你的大弟子...我们才来图南海的...你怎么可以...就这么...¤For the sake of your senior disciple... that's why we came to South Tu Sea... How could you... just like this...
（我纵横一世，难逢敌手，没想到竟会陨落在海底古树的树根里变成它的养分，贼老天，我不甘心啊！！！）¤(I roamed the world for my entire life and rarely met a match. I never expected to fall at the roots of the ancient tree under the sea and become its nourishment. This is too cruel! I refuse to accept this fate!!!)
结果不但没有起到太好的作用，还令你体内本就是留存不多的灵气又离枯竭近了一步，再次被古树扎根成功。¤The outcome did not have a great effect and caused the spiritual energy in your body, which was originally not abundant, to be closer to depletion. Once again, it was successfully rooted by the ancient tree. 
身前是插在根须上的诛仙剑，剑芒大盛。\n身后是浮在海水中的倪旭欣，不知死活。¤In front of him was the Immortal Sword, firmly stuck in the root whiskers, its radiance dazzling. Behind him was Ni Xuxin, floating in the sea without any sign of life.
咱们寨主向来不问世事一心求道，这一次怎么收留了这么多人？¤Our leader has always been focused on seeking the Dao and not concerned with worldly matters. Why did he take in so many people this time?
嗯？咱们寨主是这么重情义的人？¤Hmm? Is our village chief such a loyal and righteous person?
嗯，据说是从衡州逃难来的，叫什么玄古门。¤Well, it is said that they fled from Hengzhou and are called the Profound Ancient Sect.
听说，他们门主和咱们寨主是师兄弟。¤I heard that their sect leader and our village leader are senior brothers.
你小点声。我听我师父说，寨主境界多年难以寸进，而这玄古门有一套独门的炼丹秘法对那蜕凡化神有不少增益。¤Lower your voice. My master told me that the village chief has been stuck at the same cultivation level for years, but the profound ancient sect has a unique alchemy technique that greatly benefits those undergoing deity transformation.
最近来了好多外人啊。¤Recently, there have been a lot of outsiders coming.
你在逸风城内随意逛了一圈，今日的斗法台虽然依旧热闹，但却都是些修为稀松平常的角色，上并没有什么值得注意的比试。¤You wandered around Yifeng City and found that although the Dueling Terrace was still bustling today, all the participants were of average cultivation level, and there were no noteworthy matches.
你只看了一会儿比试就倍感无聊，便兴致索然地打道回府了。¤You felt bored after watching the competition for only a little while, so you returned home feeling disinterested.
你又随意逛了逛街道上支起的摊位，发现都是些稀松平常的物件，便兴致索然地打道回府了。¤You strolled around the street stalls at random and found nothing but ordinary items, so you returned home feeling bored.
{FirstName}供奉过奖了，这只是我们白家世代相传的手艺而已，既然{FirstName}供奉感兴趣，那我便说上一二。¤{FirstName} has praised our craftsmanship, but it is merely a skill that has been passed down in the Bai family for generations. Since {FirstName} is interested in it, I will share a bit.
不过我倒是很好奇，{FirstName}供奉从外族人的角度来看，更愿意支持哪一方呢？¤However, I am quite curious, from the perspective of a guest elder like {FirstName}, which side would you prefer to support?
我自然支持吴家。碎星商会能够有如今的实力，靠的正是不断吸纳各种人才，唐家和你们白家不也是如此么。¤I naturally support the Wu family. The Shattered Star Merchant Guild is able to have its current strength thanks to its continuous recruitment of various talents. The Tang family and your Bai family are also doing the same thing.
若我能自行收集到足够的材料，白长老可愿帮我炼制六品灵舟？¤If I can collect enough materials on my own, would Elder Bai be willing to help me refine a sixth grade spirit boat?
{FirstName}供奉可是找到了能用来炼制灵舟的{color=#d0380a}六品木属性材料{/color}？¤Did {FirstName} find the sixth-grade wood-attribute materials that can be used to refine the spirit boat through the help of the guest elder?
比试之日，你们商会的会长曾提及商会的立足之本，在我看来，这立足之本便是团结。从这一点来看，一直保持中立的白家反倒是最好的选择。¤On the day of the competition, your guild leader mentioned the foundation of the guild. In my opinion, this foundation is unity. From this perspective, the Bai family, which has always remained neutral, is actually the best choice.
原来如此，我会好好考虑{FirstName}供奉的意见的...¤Ah, I see. I will definitely consider the opinion of Guest Elder {FirstName} carefully.
既然这次的比试是唐家取胜，那此次选举我可能更倾向于选择唐家的长老。当然，我也需要参考现任会长的建议，在长老会开始前还不好下定论。¤Since this trial was won by the Tang family, I am leaning towards selecting their elder in this election. However, I also need to consider the current president's advice and cannot come to a conclusion before the meeting of the elders begins.
原来是{FirstName}供奉，不知找我何事？¤So you're {FirstName} Guest Elder, may I ask what brings you to me?
想要炼制六品灵舟对我而言也并非易事，何况最近长老会诸事繁杂，恐怕没有空帮{FirstName}供奉炼制了。¤It is not easy for me to refine a sixth grade spirit boat, especially since the Elders' Council has been busy lately. I'm afraid there won't be any time to help {FirstName} with the ritual offering and refining.
炼制六品灵舟所必须的{color=#d0380a}六品木属性材料{/color}极为稀有，若{FirstName}供奉真能找来的话，我答应为你炼制便是。¤The sixth-grade wood-attribute materials required to refine a sixth grade spirit boat are extremely rare. If the guest elder {FirstName} can find them, I promise to refine it for you.
唐家更注重培养族内弟子的想法其实没有错，抛开我的身份而言，我更欣赏唐家。¤The Tang family's focus on cultivating disciples within their own clan is not wrong. Setting aside my identity, I actually appreciate the Tang family more.
既然这次的比试是{FirstName}供奉代表吴家取胜，那我可能更倾向于选择吴家的长老。当然，我也需要参考现任会长的建议，在长老会开始前还不好下定论。¤Since {FirstName}'s guest elder is representing the Wu family to win in this competition, I may lean towards choosing the elder from the Wu family. Of course, I also need to consider the current president's advice, and it's not appropriate to make a decision before the Elder Council begins.
一件好的灵舟法宝有三点至关重要，速度，防御，和聚灵能力。若是用最好的灵舟，横跨一片海域也仅需数月，还能抵御各种灵气乱流，闭关修行之时也能更稳定的供给灵气。¤A good spirit boat artifact has three crucial factors: speed, defense, and condensing ability. With the best spirit boat, traversing an entire sea would only take a few months, while also enduring various spiritual disturbances. When cultivating in seclusion, it can more stably supply spiritual energy.
想要炼制上好的灵舟，除了对炼制材料有极为严苛的要求，还需要在炼制时铭刻精妙的防御和聚灵阵法，没有独到的手法是不可能炼制成功的。¤To refine a top-quality spirit boat, apart from having extremely strict requirements for the refining materials, it's also necessary to engrave intricate defence and gathering spirit array formations during the refining process. Without exceptional techniques, it's impossible to successfully refine it.
早就听闻白家善于炼制灵舟，白长老更是当世为数不多有能力炼制六品灵舟之人，特意来与白长老讨教一番。¤I have heard long ago that the Bai family is skilled in refining spirit boats, and Elder Bai is one of the few in this world who has the capability to refine sixth-grade spirit boats. I have come specially to seek guidance from Elder Bai.
还有谁？¤Who else is there?
来到这里比拼擂台的修士大多都是眼馋那连家的传承功法，这无尽之海上多一分实力就多一分保障，哪有修士会放过增强实力的机会呢？¤Most of the cultivators who come here to compete on the arena are lured by the legendary techniques of the Lian family. On the endless sea, every bit of strength counts as security, so which cultivator would pass up the opportunity to enhance their own power?
那血剑宫长老疗伤之所应该就在在九嶷山中...{$daihao}，随我来。¤The healing place for the Blood Sword Palace Elder should be in Jiuyi Mountain...{$daihao}, follow me.
那枯木老祖向{color=#d0380a}东面{/color}逃去了，先跟过去看看吧。¤The Patriarch Deadwood fled towards the {color=#d0380a}east{/color}. Let's follow him and see.
根须被斩断了，{xiongdi}快跑！¤The root whiskers were cut off. {xiongdi}, run quickly!
这{color=#d0380a}火弹术{/color}乃是火系的基础法门，点击技能图标，调动体内灵气并释放它。¤This {color=#d0380a}Fire Bomb{/color} is a fundamental spell of the Fire element. Simply click the skill icon to activate your internal spiritual energy and release it.
看来掌握的还不错，不过仙家法门妙用无穷，你若是能领悟{color=#d0380a}五行相生{/color}的技巧，这些基础法术也会威力大增。¤It seems that you have grasped it pretty well, but the wondrous uses of immortal techniques are endless. If you can comprehend the skill of {color=#d0380a}Five Elements Generating Each Other{/color}, these basic spells will also greatly increase in power.
运气术能够助你调整体内灵气属性，若释放运气术后能吸取到木属性灵气释放{color=#d0380a}木刺{/color}，{color=#d0380a}火弹{/color}的威力也会得到提升。¤Luck Spell allows you to adjust the spiritual energy attribute within your body. If you can absorb wood attribute spiritual energy after using the technique, the power of {color=#d0380a}Wood Spike{/color} and {color=#d0380a}Fire Bomb{/color} will also increase.
不错，现在尝试先释放木刺，再释放火弹，以触发{color=#d0380a}五行连击{/color}的效果。¤Not bad. Now, try to release the Wood Spike first and then the Fire Bomb to trigger the effect of {color=#d0380a}Five Elements Combo{/color}.
喂，臭{xiaozi}，你不会连个区区{color=#d0380a}火弹{/color}都使不出来吧？¤Hey, you little brat, can't you even use a simple fire bomb {color=#d0380a}skill{/color}?
运气术可是修真者最最基础的法术了，点击技能图标，然后释放运气术。¤Luck spell is the most basic spell for cultivators. Click on the skill icon and release the luck spell.
修士之间对决，{color=#d0380a}遁速{/color}尤为重要。遁速更快的一方可以抢先出手，占尽先机。¤In cultivator battles, {color=#d0380a}speed{/color} is especially important. The faster side can take the lead and seize the advantage.
点击技能图标以释放{color=#d0380a}运气术{/color}。释放技能时，你可以手动调整待选区的灵气。选择三种你暂时无需使用的灵气，便有可能通过{color=#d0380a}运气术{/color}重新吸收到你所需要的灵气。¤Click the skill icon to activate {color=#d0380a}Luck Spell{/color}. When releasing skills, you can manually adjust the spiritual energy selection area. By choosing three types of spiritual energy that you don't currently need, you may be able to absorb the necessary spiritual energy again through {color=#d0380a}Luck Spell{/color}. 
如果你体内的灵气已经不足以释放法术了，就只能先{color=#d0380a}结束回合{/color}，再重新吸收天地灵气。¤If your spiritual energy is insufficient to cast spells, you can only {color=#d0380a}end the turn{/color} and absorb the energy of heaven and earth again.
随着修为的提升，你体内能够储存的{color=#d0380a}灵气上限{/color}也会越来越多。只有这样，你才能使用那些更为强大的神通。¤As your cultivation improves, the {color=#d0380a}maximum amount of spiritual energy{/color} that can be stored within your body will also increase. Only by doing so, can you use even more powerful divine abilities.
还记得我教你的东西么？仙家法门的诀窍，在于吸收天地间的五行灵气，来释放对应的法术。¤Remember what I taught you? The key to immortal cultivation lies in absorbing the five elemental spiritual energy of heaven and earth to unleash corresponding spells.
五行相生便是{color=#d0380a}金生水{/color}、{color=#d0380a}水生木{/color}、{color=#d0380a}木生火{/color}、{color=#d0380a}火生土{/color}、{color=#d0380a}土生金{/color}。这是最简单也是最重要的规律。¤The five elements generate each other, with {color=#d0380a}metal generating water{/color}, {color=#d0380a}water generating wood{/color}, {color=#d0380a}wood generating fire{/color}, {color=#d0380a}fire generating earth{/color}, and {color=#d0380a}earth generating metal{/color}. This is the simplest and most important law. 
单击{color=#d0380a}结束回合{/color}以进入下一回合，若灵气数量高于上限则需要{color=#d0380a}消散灵气{/color}才可结束回合。¤Click {color=#d0380a}End Round{/color} to proceed to the next round. If the amount of spiritual energy exceeds the limit, {color=#d0380a}dispers{/color} it before ending the turn.
所以{color=#d0380a}不要{/color}先急着释放火弹，先使用运气术调整灵气释放木刺，以达到更高的伤害。¤So {color=#d0380a}don't{/color} rush to release fire bombs, use your Luck Spell first to adjust the release of Wood Spikes with spiritual energy, in order to achieve higher damage.
如果装备了武器，可以在回合的任意时候择机使用。不同的法器妙用无穷，比如我栖身的这把剑，在寻常时候可以作为普通的符器宝剑驱使，在危急时刻则有不一样的神通。¤When equipped with a weapon, it can be used opportunistically at any time during the round. The infinite uses of different magical instruments, such as the sword I reside in. In normal times, it can be used as a regular talisman sword, but in a critical moment, it has different mystical powers.
若装备了武器且尚未使用，可单击左下武器图标释放武器技能。¤If equipped with a weapon and not yet used, click on the weapon icon in the lower left corner to release weapon skills. 
嗯，以第一次实战来看，你这表现还算不错。¤Well, based on your first real-life combat, your performance is not bad.
有的时候，你需要重新沟通周天的灵气，{color=red}使用三张不同系{/color}的灵气牌，来释放运气术。¤Sometimes, you need to realign the spiritual energy in your meridians by using three different {color=red}types{/color} of spiritual energy cards to cast the luck spell.
就是这样，现在，用{color=red}两张水系灵气牌{/color}来释放水弹。¤That's right, now, use {color=red}two water-element spirit cards{/color} to cast water bullets.
看来你掌握的还不错，不过道家法门妙用无穷，你若是能领悟{color=red}五行相生{/color}的技巧，这些基础法术也会威力大增。¤It seems you have a good grasp of things, but there is an infinite number of ways to use Daoist methods. If you can gain enlightenment on the {color=red}phasing of the five elements{/color}, these basic spells will become even more powerful.
修士间的对决，体内五行灵气的数量最为重要。如果你体内的灵气已经不足以释放法术了，就只能先{color=red}结束回合{/color}，再重新吸收天地灵气。¤In the battle between cultivators, the quantity of the five elements spiritual energy in their bodies is the most important. If the spiritual energy in your body is not enough to cast spells, then you can only {color=red}end your turn{/color} first, and then absorb the spiritual energy of heaven and earth again.
随着修为的提升，你体内能够储存的{color=red}灵气上限{/color}也会越来越多。只有这样，你才能使用那些更为强大的神通。¤As your cultivation level increases, the {color=red}limit of spiritual energy{/color} that your body can store also increases. Only then can you use more powerful divine skills.
琚长老，这是为何？¤Elder Ju, what is the reason for this?
琚运琦，这也是你们风雨楼的人吧？发生了什么，你就不和我解释解释么？¤Ju Yunqi, are you also from Storm Manor? What happened? Can't you explain it to me?
事发突然，你帮我解决了此人，自会与你解释。¤The incident happened suddenly, you helped me solve this person, I will explain it to you later.
道友，我会用灵气护罩抵挡他的攻势，但恐怕支撑不了太久。剩下的就靠你了！¤Fellow Daoist, I will use my spiritual energy shield to resist his attack, but I'm afraid it won't last long. The rest is up to you!
不好，附近的阵法已经启动了！¤Not good, the nearby array has already been activated!
我们会想办法帮你破除这附近的阵法，你自己多加小心。¤We will find a way to help you break the array nearby, but be careful on your own.
他驱阵用的手法便是传说中的《乾坤百巧诀》，这种手法失传多年，没想到今天在这里又见到了。¤The technique he used to activate the expulsion array was the legendary 《Qiankun Baicai Jue》. This technique had been lost for many years, but unexpectedly, it was witnessed here today.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，最外围的土相仙阵和灵水仙阵都已经破除了。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}，The outermost earth phase immortal array and spiritual water fairy array have already been broken.。
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我们已经将聚灵阵和霜天寒月阵破除，他如今只能凭本能驱阵，接下来要一口气破除剩下所有的阵法。¤{FirstName}{xiongdi}, we have already dismantled the gathering spirit array and the frosty sky and cold moon array. Now, he can only rely on his instinct to expel the array. Next, we need to break all the remaining arrays in one go.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，剩下的大部分阵法都已经破除，剩下的就交给你了！¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, most of the arrays have already been dismantled, the rest is up to you!
好...好强的吸力...完全动不了...¤Such...such strong suction...completely immobilized...
这吞噬秘术不愧是上古神兽的传承，没有那么容易破解。¤This Devouring Secret Art truly lives up to the inheritance of ancient divine beasts, it's not that easy to unravel.
不过依我看，这股吸力应当持续不了太久。坚持一段时间，找机会逃到一个相对安全的地方，我们再从长计议！¤However, in my opinion, this suction force cannot last for too long. We should persevere for a while and look for an opportunity to escape to a relatively safe place. Then, we can discuss and plan for a long-term solution!
吸力似乎慢慢减弱了...¤The suction power seems to be slowly weakening...
{FirstName}{xiongdi}小心，我来助你！¤{FirstName} brother, be careful. I'm here to assist you!
{FirstName}{xiongdi},小心应对，我们不能再继续{color=#d0380a}激怒{/color}煮海长老了。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, be careful and handle this with caution. We cannot afford to {color=#d0380a}anger{/color} Elder Zhu Sea any further.
龙湛前辈，且慢出手，能否先听我一言？¤Senior Long Zhan, please hold off for a moment. Can you listen to me first?
使用{color=#d0380a}相生{/color}的灵气牌释放灵力护罩，如金与水，水与木等，可以提升它的效果。¤Using qi element of {color=#d0380a}mutual generation{/color} to release a spiritual power shield can enhance its effectiveness, such as combining metal and water, water and wood, etc. 
此人修为与你相当，虽说你刚刚受了一些轻伤，但若能熟练运用{color=#d0380a}灵力护罩{/color}保护自身，便可立于不败之地¤This person's cultivation level is equivalent to yours. Although you've just suffered some minor injuries, if you can proficiently use the {color=#d0380a}spiritual power shield{/color} to protect yourself, you can stand undefeated.
尝试使用一点{color=#d0380a}水{/color}灵气，与一点{color=#d0380a}木{/color}灵气，来释放灵力护罩吧。¤Try using some Water Spirit Qi and a bit of Wood Spirit Qi to unleash a protective aura. 
该强调的都说完了，接下来就看你的了，术法无眼，小心点{xiaozi}！¤All the necessary emphasis has been made, now it's up to you. Techniques have no eyes, so be careful, {xiaozi}! 
仍有未理解的可以随时单击右下角问号打开{color=#d0380a}帮助{/color}界面查阅。¤If there are still any misunderstandings, you can click on the help icon in the bottom right corner to open the {color=#d0380a}Help{/color} page for reference. 
古神教的老鬼，把剑交出来！¤Old Ghost of the Ancient God Sect, hand over the sword!
吼！¤Roar!
一道炙热的气息传来，火麒麟凝聚出数团硕大的火球，砸向恶饕，白鹿真人的攻击也接踵而至。但他全然不顾自身伤势，又向你冲了过来。¤A scorching breath swept over as the Fire Qilin condensed several massive fireballs and launched them towards the Gluttonous Beast. The Paragon White Deer's strike came right after. Yet, he remained oblivious to his own injuries and charged towards you once again.
驱！¤Drive!
无数藤蔓从水下窜出，将恶饕老祖紧紧缠住，但很快，便被其挣脱了大半。¤Countless vines shot out from underwater, tightly entangling Patriarch Gluttonous. However, soon after, he managed to break free from most of them.
真是棘手...居然只凭蛮力就...¤It's really tricky... relying only on brute force...
哼，让我来会会他。¤Hmph, let me go meet him.
混元子连掐法诀，只见一只硕大的指印于半空中慢慢浮现，又缓缓向恶饕老祖压去。¤The Primordial Child executed a finger technique, causing a massive fingerprint to slowly appear in the air before pressing down towards Patriarch Gluttonous.
一阵巨响后，指印消散。硬接下这次攻击的恶饕似乎只是被击退了一些距离，却并未受到太致命的伤害。¤After a loud crash, the finger prints dissipated. The ferocious beast that bravely withstood this attack was only pushed back a few meters and did not suffer any fatal injuries.
小心。¤Be careful.
白鹿真人闪身挡在恶饕老祖身前，凝聚出一道灵气屏障，硬接下他这次的攻击。¤Expert Paragon White Deer flashed and blocked in front of Patriarch Gluttonous, creating a qi barrier to withstand his attack.
再接我一招！¤Hit me with one more move!
吼，这老怪物还真不好对付。¤Roar, this old monster is really difficult to deal with.
保护好{FirstName}小友！¤Protect young friend {FirstName} well!
破！¤Break!
冷静点红莲，现在出手对我们不利。¤Stay calm, Red Lotus. Attacking us now would not be advantageous.
这老怪物...居然真的还活着？¤This old monster... is actually still alive?
他快不行了，一起上！¤He's almost done, let's attack together!
{vpunch=10,0.5}给我破！¤Break it with {vpunch=10,0.5}!
这冥蛛神识过于强大，我只能勉强压制它，得靠你出手对它造成致命的一击了！¤This dark spider's soul sense is too powerful, I can only barely suppress it. We need you to deliver a fatal blow to it!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你那边好像还挺棘手的，不过放心，我这边撑得住。¤{FirstName} brother, it seems like things are quite tricky on your end, but don't worry, I can handle it on my end.
该死的，这个毒气也太强了。{FirstName}{xiongdi}，不过我还能撑一会。¤Damn, this poison is too strong. {FirstName} brothers, but I can hold on for a while.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我撑不住了！快动手！¤{FirstName} brother, I can't hold on anymore! Do something quickly!
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，我这边有点麻烦，你可能要多撑一会了。¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, I have some trouble here, you may have to hold on for a while longer.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你还活着吗，我可能还需要一点时间。¤{FirstName} bro, are you still alive? I may need a little more time.
{vpunch=10,0.5}{FirstName}{xiongdi}，就是现在！动手吧！¤{vpunch=10,0.5}{FirstName}{xiongdi}, it's now! Let's go!
不过我的秘术应该能帮你多撑一会！¤However, my secret arts should be able to help you hold on a little longer!
风雨楼的人？¤Storm Manor's people?
（先交手几个回合，假装不敌，看看那琚运琦到底想干什么...）¤(First, exchange a few moves to pretend to lose, and see what that Ju Yunqi wants to do...)
我现下没有什么需要你帮助的事。¤I don't currently have anything that requires your help.
城内戒备森严，真要动起手来，引来了守卫，再想脱身可就不容易了...¤The city is heavily guarded. If we really want to make a move, we'll attract guards and it won't be easy to escape...
门派内戒备森严，直接在这里动手了恐怕只有死路一条...¤The sect is heavily guarded, attacking directly here will likely lead to a dead end...
天机阁戒备森严，若是在这里直接动手被人发现，恐怕难以脱身...¤The Heavens Secrets Pavilion is heavily guarded. If you were to attack here directly and were discovered, it would be difficult to escape...
岛上戒备森严，真要动起手来，引来了守卫，再想脱身可就不容易了...¤The island is heavily guarded, if you make a move, you will attract the guards and it won't be easy to escape.
东石谷人多眼杂，还有各大家族的门人维持秩序，在此动手风险颇大...¤In East Stone Valley, there are many people with diverse backgrounds, including members from major clans who maintain order. It is quite risky to start trouble here...
还是不要在这里动手了...¤I'd better not start a fight here...
我的确遇到了一些麻烦。此番我{$TmpTalkString}{$TmpStrValue}。¤I have encountered some trouble. This time, I will {$TmpTalkString}{$TmpStrValue}.
没想到这只{$TmpStrValue}的实力远超寻常的{$yaoshoulv}妖兽，我以寻常方式根本拿不下它，还险些命丧于此。¤I didn't expect this {$TmpStrValue} to be so much stronger than the usual {$yaoshoulv} spirit beasts. I couldn't defeat it with my usual methods and almost lost my life trying.
不知你是否愿意出手助我？集我们两人之力，想必拿下这{$TmpStrValue}定然不在话下。当然...事成之后我也会将一部分的报酬分于你。¤Do you happen to be willing to lend me a hand? With the two of us working together, we will surely be able to take down this {$TmpStrValue} without much trouble. Of course... I will also split a portion of the reward with you once it is done.
可惜...可惜...那我只能另想办法了。¤Unfortunately... Unfortunately... then I can only think of another way.
如此甚好！¤Very good!
{$daoyou}先在此地稍作准备，待我将那{$TmpStrValue}引来，我们再一起出手！¤{$daoyou}, prepare yourself here for a moment. When I lure {$TmpStrValue} here, we'll strike together!
我们正准备在城里收购一些的材料，如果运气不差的话，最后我们会在{color=#d0380a}碎星岛{/color}出手这些货物。¤We are currently preparing to purchase some materials in the city, and if our luck holds, we will end up selling these goods on the {color=#d0380a}Shattered Star Island{/color}.
当然，如果你愿意分担我一部分修理灵舟的费用，大概是{color=#d0380a}{$money}灵石{/color}，我不介意带你一程。一切顺利的话，我想我们会在{color=#d0380a}{$TmpTalkString}{/color}后抵达那里。¤Of course, if you are willing to share the cost of repairing the spirit boat with me, it would be about {$money} spirit stones and I don't mind taking you for a ride. If all goes well, I believe we will arrive there after {$TmpTalkString}.
哼，此事与你何关？¤Hmph, what does this matter have to do with you?
准备好，我们这便要出海了。¤Get ready, we are about to set sail.
不好，被发现了...¤Not good, been discovered...
我们之间的交情似乎还没有这么深吧？¤Our friendship doesn't seem to be that deep yet, does it?
你还是不要急着拒绝比较好。¤You might want to hold off on rejecting it too quickly.
（就境界而言，我的威胁力还不太够，得尝试一下其他方法...）¤(From the perspective of cultivation, my threats are not strong enough. I need to try other methods...)
（这是他喜好的高品阶物品，我的威胁力还不太够，得尝试一下其他方法...）¤(This is his favorite high-class item. My threat level is not yet sufficient. I need to try other methods.)
你可听说过{$TmpStrValue}强者{$HaoyouId1}?那可是我{$Relation}！识相的话就赶紧交出来。¤Have you heard of the powerful {$HaoyouId1} with the {$TmpStrValue} attribute? {$Relation} is my relationship with them! If you're smart, hand them over quickly.
你可听说过{$TmpStrValue}强者{$HaoyouId2}?那可是我{$Relation}！识相的话就赶紧交出来。¤Have you ever heard of the powerful {$TmpStrValue} {$HaoyouId2}? That's my {$Relation}! If you're smart, hand them over quickly.
你可听说过{$TmpStrValue}强者{$HaoyouId3}?那可是我{$Relation}！识相的话就赶紧交出来。¤Have you heard of the powerful {$TmpStrValue} expert {$HaoyouId3}? They are my {$Relation}! If you know what's good for you, hand them over quickly.
这...你是认真的么？¤This... are you serious?
没有想到我们会走到这一步...¤I didn't expect us to come this far...
既然你执意如此，那你我二人便缘尽于此吧。¤Since you insist on this, then let's just end our relationship here.
我似乎还没有属于自己的洞府...¤It seems like I still don't have my own cave...
好，那我这便出发...¤Alright, I'll set off now...
我希望你能来...¤I hope you can come...
现在不是做这些的时候...¤Now is not the time to be doing this...
{$TmpTalkString}，想起当年在东石谷外与你的相遇，真是恍若隔世。¤{$TmpTalkString}, thinking back to our meeting outside East Stone Valley all those years ago, it feels like a lifetime away.
你经历了这么多才走到今天这一步，可不能在这里倒下了啊！¤You have gone through so much to get to where you are today, you can't fall here!
咦...{$TmpTalkString}，你是在紧张么？¤Huh...{$TmpTalkString}, are you feeling nervous?
放心吧，以你的实力，一定没有问题的！¤Don't worry, with your strength, there won't be any problems!
只是看着这天劫的威势，我就感到兴奋起来了。¤Just looking at the might of this heavenly tribulation, I feel excited.
有朝一日，我定也要与这天斗上一斗！¤One day, I will definitely fight against this sky!
{$TmpTalkString}一切可都准备妥当了？¤{$TmpTalkString} Is everything prepared?
据我所知，这九道天劫中有一道唤作五行劫，此劫不仅会打乱一方天地灵气，更会让身中此劫者一身灵气完全散尽，极难对付。¤As far as I know, among the nine heavenly tribulations, there is one called the Five Elements Tribulation. This tribulation not only disrupts the spiritual energy of the world, but also completely drains the spiritual energy of the person undergoing it, making it very difficult to deal with.
{$TmpTalkString}务必要好好提防。¤{$TmpTalkString} must be carefully guarded against.
{$TmpTalkString}...我...我会一直在这里陪着你的。¤{$TmpTalkString} ... I... I will always be here with you.
你当前的状态为{color=#d0380a}灵思枯竭{/color}，无法获取论道值。确定要开始论道么？¤Your current state is {color=#d0380a}uninspired{/color}, and you are unable to gain any points for debate. Are you sure you want to start debating?
你当前的状态为{color=#d0380a}心无波澜{/color}，准备开始此番论道了么？¤Your current state is {color=#d0380a}tranquil{/color}, are you prepared to begin this debate?
你当前的状态为{color=#d0380a}灵光闪现{/color}，准备开始此番论道了么？¤Your current state is {color=#d0380a}brilliance{/color}, are you ready to start this debate?
你当前的状态为{color=#d0380a}天人感应{/color}，准备开始此番论道了么？¤Your current state is {color=#d0380a}celestial insight{/color}. Are you ready to begin this debate?
清月潭只能进入一次，{shidi}的清月令上已留有印记，{shidi}还是请回吧。¤You can only enter Clear Moon Lake once, there is already an imprint on {shidi}'s Clear Moon Decree, so please return.
清月令无误，不过星河弟子只可进入清月潭一次，{daoyou}要好好珍惜这机缘。¤The Lake Bright Moon Decree is correct, however, disciples of the Celestial River can only enter the Clear Moon Pool once. {Daoyou}, cherish this opportunity well.
得了你的应允，倪旭欣迫不及待地把丹药揣入怀中。 ¤After getting your agreement, Ni Xuxin couldn't wait to tuck the pill into her bosom.
你在港口寻找了一圈都没找到先前那个蓬莎修士，想来上次目睹交易纠纷已经是{$yearDiff}年多前的事了，可能他们早就出海了。¤You searched around the port but couldn't find the cultivator Pongsha that you saw during the trading disputes {$yearDiff} years ago. It's possible that they had already set sail since then.
你在港口寻找了一圈都没找到先前那个蓬莎修士，想来上次目睹交易纠纷已经是{$monthDiff}个月前的事了，可能他们已经出海了吧。¤After searching the port for a while, you couldn't find the cultivator Pong Sha that you saw during the trading disputes {$monthDiff} months ago. Perhaps they've already set sail by now.
林沐心还没能理解你的意思，已然被那束寒芒击中。¤Lin Muxin still couldn't understand your intention and was already hit by that cold sword energy.
这寒芒速度之快，甚至在你想到出言提醒之前就已经离林沐心后脑不过数尺。¤The cold light was so fast that it had already passed a few feet behind Lin Muxin's head before you could even think to speak up and remind her.
你正准备展示自己的阵道领悟时，却瞥见一束寒芒飞刺向毫无防备的林沐心。¤As you were about to demonstrate your array dao enlightenment, you caught a glimpse of a cold beam flying towards the unguarded Lin Muxin.
直到这时你方才看清，那道寒芒竟是一道夹杂着千年冰心石的神识攻击。也难林沐心在猝不及防之下身受重伤。¤It wasn't until now that you could see clearly, that cold radiance was actually a strike of soul sense mixed with a thousand-year ice heart stone. It seriously wounded Lin Muxin who was caught off guard.
可惜因为其炼制繁杂，算是有价无市。除了各大宗门之外，也就只有我们武陵城灵药堂的丹师才有能力炼制。¤Unfortunately, because its refinement is complicated, it is considered unsalable. Aside from the major sects, only the alchemists from our Wuling City Spirit Herb Hall have the ability to refine it.
远处一名弟子眉头紧皱，似是对你之前所讲的内容不甚理解。¤A disciple in the distance furrowed his brows, seemingly unable to fully comprehend what you had just said.
道友之前对化神这个境界可有了解？¤Fellow daoist, do you have any understanding of the deity transformation realm?
 不像，若是阵法，这排列的图案应该有迹可循才对……也许去旁边的山顶能看出些端倪。¤It doesn't seem like it's a formation, because if it were, the pattern of the array should be recognizable... Maybe climbing up to the nearby mountaintop could reveal some clues.
哼，没想到...是你救了我。¤Hmph, I didn't expect... it was you who saved me.
若非你出手，今日我恐怕便要殒命于此。这些灵石是答谢你的救命之恩，但你我之间的旧怨可不会就这么一笔勾销。¤If it weren't for your help today, I'm afraid I would have perished here. These spirit stones are my thanks for saving my life, but our past grievances won't be resolved so easily.
（邪魅地）怎么可能？？？ ¤How is this possible???
不必了，顺手而已。¤No need, just doing it casually.
{$DaoyouPlayer}可愿与我结为道侣，共求长生大道？¤Would you be willing, {$DaoyouPlayer}, to become my Dao companion, and together seek eternal life on the Dao?
那好，等我解决了魔修便来支援你。 ¤Okay, I'll come support you once I take care of the demonic cultivators.
我说，{xiongdi}你也太厉害了吧，这等赛事，竟能拔得头筹？¤I say, brother, you are too amazing. In such a competition, you were able to come out on top?
我记得敖玄道友你曾言令尊当时是在闭关疗伤。¤I remember fellow daoist Ao Xuan mentioning that your esteemed self was cultivating to heal your injuries at that time.
但如果我也把这个当作一个对弟子的考验，就算你成功战胜了那筑基巅峰妖王，那也只能说明你比他厉害罢了，{$ShiXiongStr}的面子也勉强算是保住了。¤However, if I treat this as a test for my disciples, even if you successfully defeat that foundation building peak demon king, it only shows that you are stronger than him.{$ShiXiongStr}'s reputation is barely preserved.
此前{$ShiXiongStr}不是让他的弟子前去解决嘛？若是我亲自出手解决，岂不是说明{$ShiXiongStr}的决断出了问题？{$ShiXiongStr}素来好面子，这样做他肯定会生气。¤Didn't {$ShiXiongStr} ask his disciples to solve this before? If I personally intervene, wouldn't it imply that {$ShiXiongStr}'s decision making was flawed? {$ShiXiongStr} has always been concerned about his reputation and he will definitely be angry about this.
灼烧流由于在筑基期可供修习的功法较少，所以主要以神通为主。¤The Burn Flow relies mainly on Divine Skills during the Foundation Establishment period due to the limited selection of techniques available for cultivation.
此前{$ShiXiongStr}手下的弟子前去与之交手了一番，都差点没能活着回来，你还是不要掉以轻心为好。¤Before this, disciples under {$ShiXiongStr} had gone to engage with them and barely made it back alive. It is best not to take it lightly.
{$ShiXiongStr}那暴躁脾气，稀里糊涂的就让徒弟上了。哼，我可不会像他那样。¤I won't be like him with that irritable temperament, letting my disciples go up in a muddle-headed manner.
别担心，{$ShiXiongStr}性格直爽，没有弄清楚实力差距而已。不过我可是心里有数。¤Don't worry, {$ShiXiongStr} has a straightforward personality and just didn't understand the difference in strength. But I know exactly where I stand.
此前{$ShiXiongStr}手下的弟子前去与之交手了一番，都能活着回来，相信你去应该不是问题。¤Prior to this, disciples under {$ShiXiongStr} had gone to confront him and were able to return alive, so I believe it should not be a problem for you to go.
我为了炼制一把武器正在收集材料，而这材料倒也不是非要蓬莎巨蟹螯，是要天阳、水属性的四品材料，另外也最好是牙、骨类的。¤I'm collecting materials to craft a weapon, and it doesn't necessarily have to be Pongsha Crab Claws. I need Fourth Grade Materials with the Yang attribute and water element, and preferably teeth and bone materials too.
啊！且不说这些了，{$daoyouPlayer}为何这么想要蓬莎巨蟹螯呢？¤Ah! Let's not talk about that for now. {$daoyouPlayer}, why do you want the pongsha crab claw so badly?
既然{$daoyouPlayer}这么说了，那就还是按正常价格吧。¤Since {$daoyouPlayer} said so, then let's stick to the normal price.
她眨巴着眼睛看着你，眼里充满了期待。¤She blinked her eyes and looked at you, her eyes filled with expectation.
好，我且帮你去打探一下吧。¤Alright, I'll help you go investigate.
想不到你也坐地起价，我真是看错你了！¤I didn't expect you to raise prices just like that. I really misjudged you!
正是如此，我是要向他们购买蓬莎巨蟹螯。¤That's right, I want to buy the Pongsha crab claws from them.
算是一点心意，{$daoyouPlayer}不必客气了。¤This is a small token of appreciation, no need to be polite, {$daoyouPlayer}.
而地阴、水属性材料对应着【{color=#d0380a}疗{/color}】的效果，虽不影响成器，但阴阳相斥，混着来则两边的灵力都会被浪费不少。¤While the earth yin  and water attribute materials correspond to the {color=#d0380a}healing{/color} effect, although it doesn't affect the creation process, the yin and yang repel each other, and if mixed together, a significant amount of spiritual power on both sides will be wasted.
{$daoyouPlayer}也许有些误会，其实他们蓬莎岛修士也不隶属于什么商会，而是个散修组织，谈不上垄断海外材料的贸易。¤{$daoyouPlayer} may have misunderstood, in fact, the Pongsha Island cultivators do not belong to any business association but are a wandering cultivator group. They cannot be said to monopolize the trade of overseas materials.
我们既是同门，这材料{$daoyouPlayer}就不必客气了。¤As fellow martial artists, there's no need for you to be polite about using these materials, {$daoyouPlayer}.
不过我也听说，蓬莎修士之间也经常以物易物，没准可以用他们需要的物品换取你想要的材料呢。¤However, I've also heard that cultivators often exchange items amongst themselves. Maybe you can trade the materials you need for the items you want with the Penglai cultivators.
为了弄到这蓬莎巨蟹螯，我还是费了些精力和财力，还请{$daoyouPlayer}多付些灵石。只要多付平价的一半就可以了，这已经比原来便宜不少了吧。¤In order to obtain these Pongsha Crab Claws, I had to expend some effort and resources. I kindly ask that {$daoyouPlayer} pay extra Spirit Stones. Just pay half of the market price, which is already cheaper than before, right?
这四品材料大多是从金丹妖兽身上产出，都主要靠金丹以上修士猎杀得来，这可不是件简单的差事啊。¤Most of these fourth grade materials are produced from the bodies of spirit beasts with golden cores. They are mainly obtained by hunting by cultivators at or above the golden core level, which is not an easy task.
真是不好意思，让{$daoyou}听了我这么多抱怨。¤I'm really sorry for letting you, {$daoyou}, listen to all my complaints.
我这些日子就要赶回神兵阁炼制武器去，{$daoyou}替我找来的材料我一定好好使用。¤These days, I need to hurry back to the Divine Warrior Pavilion to forge weapons. I'll make sure to use the materials that {$daoyou} found for me properly.
既然{$daoyou}这么说，我愿意相信{$daoyou}是为了保本。那好，我就多付些灵石，谢谢{$daoyou}帮忙。¤Since you, {$daoyou}, said that, I'm willing to believe that you're doing this to minimize risks. Alright then, I'll pay more spirit stones. Thank you for your help, {$daoyou}.
是啊，你说气不气人，他们海外修士，就是倚靠着商会，向宁州高价倾销材料，弄得大家都买不起了。¤Yes, it's frustrating. Those overseas cultivators rely on the guild to sell materials at high prices in Ningzhou, making it impossible for everyone else to afford them.
那有劳{$daoyou}了！¤Thank you for your help, {$daoyou}!
为了这蓬莎巨蟹螯，我可是煞费精力，而且据说现在这广陵城只有这一份蓬莎巨蟹螯了，这价格我就和港口那些修士看齐了。¤For the sake of these Pongsha crab claws, I have expended much effort. Moreover, it is said that there is only this one Pongsha crab claw left in Guangling City. I have priced it on par with the cultivators at the port.
{$daoyouPlayer}收集材料不易，这东西我就赠与你吧。¤{$daoyouPlayer}, gathering materials is not easy, so I'll give this to you.
哎，我的灵石也不多，大多材料都是尽量自己猎杀妖兽或者在坊市购买，听说广陵城港口能买到海外金丹妖兽的材料，才想来碰碰运气，没想到这价格这么黑！¤Ah, I don't have many spirit stones. I mostly gather materials by hunting spirit beasts myself or purchasing them at the marketplace. I heard that at the Guangling City port, you can buy materials for sea-beast golden cores. I wanted to try my luck, but I didn't expect the prices to be this high!
唉，早知道刚才多问两句的。可这样一来，恐怕不能再从他们那儿弄到材料了。¤Ah, if only I had asked a few more questions earlier. But now, it seems like we won't be able to get any more materials from them.
其实确切一点，应该说是怕海，看到这一望无际的海面，深不见底的海水，想想都可怕吧。而且，这片凶恶的海...¤To be precise, it's fear of the sea. Seeing the boundless sea, the deep and bottomless water, it's terrifying to think about. Moreover, this is a ferocious sea...
不过刚才在港口看{$daoyouPlayer}的反应，似乎无法出海亲自去收集材料，莫非是有什么难言之隐？¤However, just now at the port, it seemed that {$daoyouPlayer} was unable to set sail and gather materials personally. Could it be that there is some hidden difficulty?
哪里哪里，我也只是懂些皮毛，而且，凑不到这最后一块材料，我也只能纸上谈兵。¤I only have a superficial understanding and unfortunately, without obtaining the final piece of materials, all I can do is engage in idle talk.
{$daoyou}不用客气了，我还是半价卖给你吧。¤Don't be polite, {$daoyou}. I'll still sell it to you at half price.
那就请倪兄引路了。¤Then please lead the way, Brother Ni.
涵虚仙人成名火属性地阶上品剑阵，《炙炎三才阵》。¤The renowned immortal, Hanxu, has a mastery of flame attributes and has reached the superior level of the earthly realm's sword array. He also possesses the 《Scorching Flame Array》.
我听说这南崖城是由蓬莎岛，碎星商会和各大家族所共同管理的，而且每隔数百年便会依照一套复杂的规则重新从各势力中进行选拔，组成长老会。¤I heard that South Cliff City is jointly managed by Pongsha Island, Shattered Star Merchant Guild, and major clans, and every few hundred years there is a selection process based on a complex set of rules to form the Elder Council from various factions.
听说{color=#d0380a}碎星岛{/color}有不少了不得的功法传承，碎星商会所举办的拍卖会上也是珍宝如云，我们便先去那里见识一番吧！¤I've heard that {color=#d0380a}Shattered Star Island{/color} has many incredible technique inheritances, and the auction held by the Shattered Star Merchant Guild is full of treasures. Let's go there first to see for ourselves!
噢？看来道友对此还不知情。碎星商会的人常常会在这附近的海岛上开设一些临时的交易场所，收购草药和丹药。¤Oh? It seems that my fellow daoist is still uninformed about this. The Shattered Star Merchant Guild often sets up temporary trading posts on nearby islands to purchase herbs and pills.
在当年金虹剑仙一剑开天，引来雷劫以前，可从未有人引来天劫，飞升到过上界。但如今，只要踏足这化神之境，天劫便会在千年后如期降临...¤In the past, when the Radiant Sword Immortal opened the world with a single sword, he attracted the Thunder Kalpa, but no one had ever attracted the Heavenly Tribulation and ascended to the Upper Realm. However, now that one steps into the realm of Deity Transformation, the Heavenly Tribulation will arrive as scheduled after a thousand years...
你能来...我很高兴...¤You can come over... I'm glad...
你向半空中的身影望去，正对上{$name}坚定的目光。千年修为，只为今朝，你能感受到{$ta}对上界的向往。¤You look up towards the figure in mid-air, meeting {$name}'s determined gaze. After a millennium of cultivation, all for the present day, you can sense {$ta}'s longing for the upper realm.
{$TmpTalkString}，日后有缘，上界再见。¤{$TmpTalkString}, may we meet again in the upper realm if fate permits.
第八道雷劫轰然落下，早就摇摇欲坠的灵气护罩一触即溃，{$name}再也支撑不住，被落雷淹没...¤The eighth thunder kalpa fell with a deafening roar, and the spiritual energy shield, which had already been on the verge of collapse, shattered at the touch of the falling thunder. {$name} couldn't hold on any longer and was engulfed by the thunder...
再见了...¤Goodbye...
千年修为，只为今朝，我相信你可以的！¤Millennia of cultivation, only for the present day. I believe you can do it!
你看到{$name}找了一片空旷的开阔地，正在养精蓄锐，静心准备渡劫。¤You see {$name} has found a spacious open area and is cultivating his inner strength, peacefully preparing for his tribulation.
{$TmpTalkString}，谢谢你能来。¤{$TmpTalkString}, thank you for coming.
劫云渐渐散去，阳光重新穿过云层，洒下道道光柱。但光柱之下，却空无一人...¤The calamity clouds gradually dissipated, and the sunlight penetrated the clouds once again, casting down beams of light. But beneath the beams of light, there was no one to be seen...
凭我这十方御劫阵，今日一定可以...¤Relying on my Tribulation Omniguard Array, I will definitely be able to...
{$TmpTalkString}，保重！¤{$TmpTalkString}, take care!
相持许久，灵气护罩终于被击溃，{$name}再也支撑不住，被落雷淹没...¤After a long standoff, the spiritual energy shield was finally shattered by the falling thunder. {$name} could no longer hold on, and was engulfed by the thunder...
{$name}仅有化神中期修为，在连绵不绝的雷劫下很快便有些支撑不住，险象环生...¤{$name} only had cultivation at the mid-stage of deity transformation, and was struggling under the endless thunder kalpa. The situation was perilous...
纵使明白天道无情，但想起与{$name}相识的点点滴滴，一时间仍让你有些难以接受...¤Even though you understand that the heavens are merciless, the memories of your acquaintance with {$name} still make it difficult for you to accept...
即便你已经在现场见证了师兄白帝飞升的情景，此时在这煌煌天威之下还是不禁为{$name}捏了一把汗。¤Even though you have witnessed senior brother White Emperor's ascension on the scene, at this moment, under this magnificent heavenly might, you couldn't help but feel nervous for {$name}.
很多年没有这种感觉了...只是看着这天劫的威势，我就感到兴奋起来了。¤It's been many years since I've felt this way... Just looking at the might of this heavenly tribulation, I feel excited.
这一天...我等了很久了...¤This day...I've waited for a long time...
我明白。¤I understand.
别紧张，我会一直在这里陪着你。¤Don't worry, I will always be here with you.
终究...还是失败了么...¤Ultimately... did we still fail...
你向半空中的身影望去，正对上{$name}兴奋的目光，你能感受到{$ta}难以抑制的激动心情。¤You look up at the figure in the air and meet {$name}'s excited gaze. You can feel {$ta}'s difficult-to-restrain excitement.
最后一道雷劫轰然落下，暗红色的雷柱重重的砸在灵气护罩上，爆发出耀眼的闪光。翻涌的灵气四散开来，让你很难看清劫云中心到底发生了什么...¤The final thunder kalpa descended with a mighty crash, as a dark red thunderbolt slammed heavily onto the spiritual shield, erupting into a dazzling flash. The surging spiritual energy scattered all around, making it hard for you to see what exactly happened at the center of the calamity cloud...
轰！！！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Boom!!! {vpunch=10,0.5}
你向半空中的身影望去，正对上{$name}有些平静的目光。仙凡两隔，自此以后，{$ta}与这下界便再也没有瓜葛了。¤You look up at the figure in mid-air, meeting {$name}'s calm gaze. Separated by realms, {$ta} and the mortal world were never intertwined again.
第一道雷劫应声落下，紧随而来的是第二，第三道...¤The first thunder kalpa descended with a resounding roar, closely followed by the second, the third...
{$TmpTalkString}...你说上界会是什么样子的呢？¤{$TmpTalkString}...What do you think the Upper Realm would look like?
嘻嘻...刚刚还在想，你什么时候来呢。¤Hehe... I was just thinking, when are you coming?
但若没有这天劫桎梏，本宫倒也未必真就想飞升去那上界。¤But if there were no shackles of Heavenly Tribulation, this palace might not truly want to ascend to the Upper Realm.
{$TmpTalkString}，想起当年在东石谷外与你的相遇，真是恍若隔世...¤{$TmpTalkString}, thinking back to our meeting outside of East Stone Valley all those years ago, it feels like a lifetime ago...
{$name}已有化神后期修为，面对一道道落下的雷劫虽说不上轻松，但尚可勉力支撑。¤{$name} has already cultivated to the late void transformation stage of cultivation, and although dealing with the thunder kalpas that come down is not easy, they can still barely hold on.
你向半空中的身影望去，正对上{$name}有些哀伤的目光，不由得心中一颤...{$ta}是在为这离别而感到悲伤么？¤You look up to the figure in mid-air, meeting {$name}'s somewhat sorrowful gaze. Your heart can't help but tremble... Is {$ta} feeling sad about this parting?
伴随着阵阵低沉的雷鸣之声，天色骤然暗了下去，仅仅几息之间，几乎小半个宁州的天空都被漆黑的劫云笼罩。¤As the sound of deep thunder roared, the sky suddenly darkened. In just a few moments, almost half of Ningzhou's sky was covered by dark calamitous clouds.
天劫共有九道，每道各不相同。但归根结底，不管用什么手段，只要能活着扛过雷劫，便可得道飞升。¤There are nine different thunder kalpas in the heavenly tribulation. However, ultimately, no matter what means one uses, as long as they can withstand the thunder kalpa and survive, they can achieve ascension.
太好了...¤Great...
最后一道雷劫轰然落下，暗红色的雷柱与重重的砸在灵气护罩上，而护罩之下，只见{$name}的脸色愈发苍白，嘴角也沁出血迹。¤The final thunder tribulation descended with a resounding roar, and the dark red lightning bolt crashed heavily against the spiritual shield. Beneath the shield, {$name}'s complexion grew even paler and bloodstains seeped from the corners of their mouth.
化神寿命亦有尽时...即便没有天劫，面对终将耗尽的寿元，岂不是更加绝望。¤When the lifespan of deity transformation comes to an end...even without heavenly tribulations, facing the inevitable exhaustion of lifespan, wouldn't it be even more despairing?
{$TmpTalkString}，看着吧。看我是如何破开这雷劫，飞升上界的！¤{$TmpTalkString}, watch closely. See how I break through this thunder kalpa and ascend to the upper realm!
天劫不可小觑，你可别大意了。¤The heavenly tribulation is not to be underestimated, you must not be careless.
这些年来要不是你数次在危难关头帮我，我也无法走到今天这一步。¤Without your help in times of danger over these years, I wouldn't have been able to take this step today.
{$TmpTalkString}不必为我担心，我知道该怎么做。¤Don't worry about me, {$TmpTalkString}, I know what to do.
不用为我担心，我不会有事的。¤Don't worry about me, I'll be fine.
再见了，{$TmpTalkString}...¤Goodbye, {$TmpTalkString}...
本宫化神千年，游遍人间，在这下界原本应该已经没有什么可留恋的东西了...¤After a thousand years of deity transformation, I have traveled throughout the human world. There really shouldn't be anything left down here that I would miss... 
{$name}仅有化神初期修为，在连绵不绝的雷劫下很快便有些支撑不住，险象环生...¤{$name} only had cultivation at the early stage of deity transformation, and under the endless thunder kalpa, he quickly found it difficult to hold on and was in great danger...
嗯...奇怪。原本我还有些紧张的，不过看到你来了以后，好像就安心了不少。¤Hmm...strange. I was a little nervous before, but after seeing you, I feel much more at ease.
你今日...似乎和往常不太一样。¤You seem...different from usual today.
劫云渐渐散去，万道光柱穿破云层，在光柱的正中心，能够清晰的看到一个身影正缓缓向上飞去...¤The calamity clouds gradually dispersed, and countless beams of light pierced through the clouds. At the center of the light beams, a figure could be seen ascending slowly...
这是你第一次在现场见证化神强者飞升的情景，在这煌煌天威之下，你不禁为{$name}捏了一把汗。¤This is the first time you have witnessed a deity transformation live on-site. Under the magnificent power of the heavens, you couldn't help but worry for {$name}.
嘻嘻...我只等着这雷劫有些不耐烦了而已。¤Hehe...I'm just waiting for this thunder kalpa to get a little impatient.
{$TmpTalkString}，我成功了！¤{$TmpTalkString}, I have succeeded!
除你以外，还有不少修士被这里的天地异象所吸引。但他们不敢靠近，只能远远的围观。¤Apart from you, many cultivators here are attracted by the anomalies in the sky and earth. However, they dare not approach and can only watch from afar.
成功了！¤Success!
青玉符剑-主动：吸收1点灵气。冷却时间2回合。\n¤Green Jade Rune Sword Active: Absorb 1 point of spiritual energy. Cooldown time of 2 turns.
驱火剑-主动：造成6点火系伤害。冷却时间1回合。¤Fire bringer sword Active: Deals 6 points of fire damage. Cooldown time of 1 round.
火铜符剑-主动：敌方获得【灼烧】*2。冷却时间2回合。¤Fire Copper Rune Sword Active Skill: Enemy gains [Burn] *2. Cooldown 2 turns.
我们碎星商会收购这些东西也有不小的成本，你能用这样的价格买到已经很不错了，若是到其它城市里的拍卖行买，那可要贵多了。¤Our Shattered Star Guild's purchase of these items also comes with significant cost. It's already quite good that you can buy them at this price. If you were to buy them at an auction house in another city, it would be much more expensive.
你可以试着先依照功法运转一下，在运转的过程中试着领悟，领悟不出来的话，可以去打听打听，看看其他人都有什么见解。¤You can try to practice the technique first, and try to gain enlightenment during the practice. If you cannot gain enlightenment, you can ask around to see what other people's insights are.
...夫剑者，心中有剑，万法皆可为剑，或生生不息，或厚积薄发，或行走偏锋，或贵于神速。不拘泥于形，不凝滞于物。¤Regarding the sword, one must have a sword in their heart, where all things can be used as a sword. It can be like a constantly growing and evolving force, or it can be built up over time and unleashed suddenly. It can be used in unique and unconventional ways, or it can prioritize speed above all else. It does not adhere to form, nor is it constrained by stagnation.
这功法...着实精妙...连老夫我一时间都看不透，不过可以确定，肯定是举世罕见的剑修功法。¤This technique... is truly exquisite... even I, an elder, cannot fully comprehend it at this moment. However, I can confirm that it is definitely a rare sword cultivation technique in the world.
这运气之法看似平常，与五行剑法相匹配后居然如此精妙...果然是前代能人才有的手笔！¤The technique of luck manipulation may seem ordinary, but when paired with the Five Elements Swordplay, it becomes incredibly exquisite... It's really the mastery of experts from the past!
来到高高的白玉石台之下，最显眼的便是陈长老的告天下剑修书。¤Arriving beneath the towering white jade platform, the most conspicuous item was Chen Elder's Heaven and Earth Sword Cultivation Manual.
不管怎么讲，能够重续五行剑诀道统，也算是你一桩机缘，得好好把握才行，咱们走吧。¤Anyway, being able to inherit the 5 Elements Sword Art lineage is a great opportunity for you. You need to grasp it well. Let's go.
......你仔细阅览了一下，玉简中是一部五行运气之法，署名是金虹剑派大长老，名字已无法辨认。¤After careful reading, you discovered that the jade slip contains a technique regarding the manipulation of the five elements, which is credited to the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect Grand Elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, though their name is no longer discernible.
你循着功法运气，慢慢地感觉到一股幽远玄妙的感觉，却难以言表，总觉得缺了些什么，绞尽脑汁地进行领悟，却依旧是一无所获。¤As you followed the technique and circulated your energy, you slowly felt a profound and mysterious sensation that was difficult to express. You always felt like there was something missing and tried to achieve enlightenment but still gained nothing.
老夫坦荡一生，无悔无愧，只可惜未能亲身运转此功法，实乃大憾，若有有缘者获取此法，集齐...【残缺】五种神通，则自可运转此功，若此功当真有效，则我死而瞑目矣...¤In my honest life, I have no regrets or shame. Unfortunately, I was never able to personally practice this technique which is a great shame. If someone who has the fate to obtain this divine skill and can collect the incomplete five types of divine skills, they will be able to practice this technique. If this technique truly works, then I can close my eyes peacefully in death.
这功法...着实精妙...你可以试着先依照功法运转一下，在运转的过程中试着领悟，领悟不出来的话，可以去打听打听，看看其他人都有什么见解。¤This technique... is truly exquisite... You can try to operate according to the technique first, and try to gain enlightenment during the process. If you can't gain enlightenment, you can go and ask others for their insights.
不错，这回你也算是出了个大风头。不过话说回来，这功法还是当真有趣，但想要发挥最大的战斗力，估计还有很长一段路要走，是否要加以使用，还需要深思熟虑才行。¤Not bad, this time you've really made a big splash. But speaking of which, this technique is truly interesting. However, if you want to unleash its maximum combat power, it's estimated that there's still a long way to go. Whether or not to use it needs to be carefully considered.
陈某不才，忝列白帝楼长老之位。数十年前，机缘巧合之下获得此功。¤I, Chen Mou, am unworthy of my position as an elder of the White Emperor Pavilion. Several decades ago, through fortunate circumstances, I gained this achievement.
果然如此......看来啊，是功夫未到，机缘未至，不可强求啊。¤Sure enough... it seems that my skills are not yet mature enough and the opportunity has not arrived. It cannot be forced.
没错，我刚才运转的时候就感觉到了，要不是此处灵力充沛，我运转这功法绝对没有那么轻松，战时能发挥多少实力，还是未知数。¤Yes, I felt it when I just practiced my technique. If it weren't for the abundant spiritual power here, practicing this technique wouldn't be so easy. It's still unknown how much strength I can exert in battle.
陈道友谬赞了，在下不过是运气好罢了。¤Fellow Daoist Chen's praise is excessive, I'm just lucky.
陈长老察觉到此处的异象，迫不及待地赶来，满眼之中尽是欣喜之色。¤Elder Chen noticed the anomaly here and hurried over, his eyes full of joy.
...故取五行之气相生之理，化为剑用，得此要者，必能厚积薄发，克敌制胜，若精通五行之道，更能生生不息，绵绵不绝。¤Therefore, taking the principle of the five elements generating each other, to refine it into a sword technique, the essential requirement is to accumulate gradually and bring one's full potential into play, to overcome enemies and gain victory. If one has a deep understanding of the way of the five elements, they can even stay restless and limitless.
确实奇特，也不知道该如何领悟为妙。¤Indeed it is peculiar, and it is best to cultivate enlightenment on how to comprehend it.
已经领悟过一遍了，咱们就别逗留了吧。¤I have already gained enlightenment once, so let's not linger here.
......你阅览了一下这篇告示，后面基本都是陈长老对这篇功法的介绍，可真是玄乎其玄。¤......After you read this notice, most of it is Elder Chen's introduction to this technique, which is really mysterious indeed.
厚积薄发，路过的修士皆被你磅礴的剑意所深深震慑，甚至不敢直视，只有高境界的剑修才敢上前一探，他们神情各异，但相通之处便是眼中都闪烁着兴奋的光芒。¤With a solid foundation and hidden potential, passing cultivators were deeply awed by the power of your immense sword intent. They dare not even look directly at you. Only the high-level sword cultivators dared to approach you, each with a different expression on their faces, but all with the same excitement shining in their eyes.
你深吸一口气，缓缓将剑脱鞘，缓缓运转玉简内的运气之法，屏息凝神，身体内似有一股温润的冲动在引导着你，你不知不觉地施展起了五行剑法之神通。¤You take a deep breath, slowly unsheathe your sword, and begin to activate the energy method within the jade slip. Focusing your senses, you feel a warm impulse within your body, guiding you as you unconsciously utilize the divine skill of the Five Elements Sword Art.
原来是这样，没想到其他三派的名不见经传的剑法，配合起来，竟还有这样的神通！！！¤So that's how it is, I never expected that these unknown swordsmanship techniques from the other three sects, when combined, could possess such divine skill!!!
吾素善阵、气之道，偶得此阵之图，观其精微，查其至理，模仿阵中气机运转，耗费毕生心血，创立此功，取名五行剑诀，然吾于...【残缺】一战中，困于此地，修为尽失。¤I am skilled in formations and the way of Qi. By chance, I obtained the diagram for this formation and studied its intricacies. I emulated the flow of Qi within the formation, poured all my effort into it, and created this technique. I named it the 'Five Elements Sword Art'. However, in the battle of [missing text], I became trapped here and lost all my cultivation.
原来如此...这就是五行剑诀吗，当真是精妙绝伦。只是不知临战之时，有没有时间和机会让你运转足够多的五行灵气了。¤So that's how it is...this is the 5 Elements Sword Art. Truly exquisite. However, I wonder if there will be enough time and opportunity to gather enough 5 Elements spiritual energy during battle.
好！好！好！道友真是了结了在下平生一大夙愿！¤Great! Great! Great! Fellow Daoist has truly helped me fulfill a long-time wish!
好，正合我意。¤Good, just what I had in mind.
陈长老诚恳地向你请教了五行剑诀的相关要点。你领悟五行剑诀的事迹很快传遍了整个宁州，为天下剑修所津津乐道。¤Elder Chen sincerely consulted with you about the key points of the 5 Elements Sword Art. Your enlightenment on the 5 Elements Sword Art quickly spread throughout Ningzhou, and became a topic of great interest among sword cultivators across the land.
没想到啊没想到，这五派剑法看似平常，结合起来居然有如此威能，这作者的确是天才。¤I didn't expect it, I didn't expect it. These five sword techniques seem ordinary, but combined, they have such power. This author is indeed a genius.
...五行剑诀，当真是...名副其实，厉害非常！¤The Five Elements Sword Art is truly deserving of its name, it is very powerful!
一股难以置信的力量牵引着你，\r配合着剑花飞舞，五行之力生生不息，剑气剑意绵绵不绝，手中之剑轻若无物，力道却重似千钧。¤You are pulled by an incredible force, accompanied by dancing sword flowers, the power of the five elements never ending, sword qi and sword intent unceasing, the sword in your hand light as a feather but heavy as a mountain.
一个古朴的玉简在阵法的加持下悬浮于石台之上，借助阵法，每个人都可以自行阅读。¤A quaint jade scroll floated atop the stone platform, empowered by an array. With the help of the array, anyone could read it on their own.
原来这五行剑诀，需要五派剑法相互搭配才能使用。离火、竹山、化尘三派剑法千百年来，一直被人所忽视，能集齐这五派剑法，道友可真是不简单啊！¤Originally, the 5 Elements Sword Art requires a combination of the five sword techniques from different schools to be used. The Heavenly Fire, Bamboo Mountain, and Dust Dispersal sword techniques have always been overlooked for hundreds of years. It's not easy for fellow daoists to gather all five techniques!
感觉...好奇怪，到底缺了什么呢？¤I feel...strange, what exactly is missing?
本功脱胎于...【残缺】，相传魔道入侵之时，为抵御外敌，古金虹掌门结合...【残缺】剑法创立...【残缺】授于其余各三宗，若结为阵法，则可将五行之力化为剑用，然三宗善剑法者鲜，无人能驭，故废之。¤This skill originated from the remains of...[missing], legend has it that during the invasion of the demonic path, the former master of the ancient Golden Rainbow combined...[missing] sword techniques to create...[missing] and taught it to three disciples of each of the remaining three sects. If they formed an array, they could turn the power of the five elements into a sword. However, few of the disciples were skilled in swordsmanship and none could control it, so it was abandoned.
玉简上用古修文字写着五行剑诀四个大字，经文内容虽全部是古文字，但好在以你和魏老的阅历，阅读起来并没有什么障碍。¤On the jade scroll, there were four characters written in ancient characters for the 5 Elements Sword Art. The text was entirely in ancient characters, but luckily with your and Old Wei's experience, it was not difficult to read.
看似稀松寻常，实则幽远玄妙，在下才疏学浅，苦思数年仍未能领悟，今日公之于众，邀天下剑修共同参悟，望有能者为其解密，使古代剑修之道统续存于今。¤Although seemingly ordinary, it is actually profound and mysterious. As someone with shallow knowledge, I have pondered over it for years without gaining enlightenment. Today, I publicly invite all sword cultivators in the world to seek understanding together and hope that those who are capable can decode it, so that the ancient path of sword cultivation can continue to exist today.
此功名曰五行剑诀，乃宁州古迹中金虹剑派大长老所遗，其撰者名氏，今已不存。¤This skill is called the Five Elements Sword Art, passed down by the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect Grand Elder of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect in the ancient ruins of Ning Province. The name of its creator is now lost to time.
星河剑法、竹山剑法、离火剑法、化尘剑法、金虹剑法...水、木、火、土、金...周而复始、环而无端。¤Celestial River Sword Skill, Bamboo Mountain Sword Skill, Fire Sword Skill, Transmigration Earth Sword Skill, Radiant Sword Art... Water, Wood, Fire, Earth, and Metal... Endlessly cyclical and boundless.
有点意思...咱们再看看功法经文的内容吧。¤Interesting... let's take a look at the technique scripture again.
我去，这啥啊？{xiongdi}你什么时候背着我偷偷学的，这么厉害，快教教我！！！¤Oh my gosh, what is this? Brother, when did you secretly learn this without telling me? You're so skilled, teach me quickly!!!
{FirstName}道友，目前没有更多关于图南漩涡的消息告诉你了。  ¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, currently there is no further information about the South Tu Vortex to share with you.
{$daoyouPlayer}误会，我只是正巧路过听到了你们争吵而已。请问你们可是专门卖这些海外材料的？¤{$daoyouPlayer} misunderstood, I just happened to pass by and overheard your argument. Are you guys specializing in selling these foreign materials?
{$daoyou}又有何事啊？¤What's the matter again, {$daoyou}?
这具体怎么定就是因人而异了，只要两边谈妥了就行。¤How to determine the specifics depends on the individual, as long as both sides have negotiated and agreed.
我数数...不对啊，这补天芝还少一株呢，{$daoyou}还是凑齐了再来吧。¤Let me count... Something's not right, there's still one more Skymend Shroom missing. {$daoyou}, please come back once you have gathered them all.
这种草药反倒是宁州独有，我们正准备拿来炼制一些丹药。你要是能拿来10株补天芝，我们便可以用蓬莎巨蟹螯和你交换。¤This type of herb is unique to Ningzhou. We were planning to use it to refine some pills. If you can bring 10 Skymend shrooms, we can exchange them with you for Pongsha crab claws.
嘿嘿，正好10株，{$daoyou}收好这蟹螯。¤Hehe, exactly 10 plants. {$daoyou}, hold onto these crab claws.
嗯...以{$daoyou}显露出来的修为，去海上闯一闯应该不是什么难事，不过还是要十分小心。即便是身经百战的蓬莎到修士出海，仍有舟毁人亡的风险，这种事我们见得太多了。¤Well... With the cultivation that {$daoyou} has shown, it shouldn't be difficult to venture out to sea. However, extreme caution is still necessary. Even experienced sailors and cultivators are at risk of shipwrecks and fatalities at sea. We've seen this happen too many times.
我想想...应该只有{color=#d0380a}南崖城{/color}的坊市了吧，不过南崖城离这儿最远，要从这里出海一路{color=#d0380a}南下{/color}，穿过两三个海域，为此跑一趟太耗时。¤Let me think... There's only the marketplace in {color=#d0380a}South Cliff City{/color}. However, South Cliff City is the farthest from here. To get there, we have to sail {color=#d0380a}south{/color} through two or three seas, which would take a lot of time.
这就是我们蓬莎岛上经常干的“以物易物”了，{$daoyou}有机会去蓬莎岛啊，得先多准备些好东西，好去交换嘛。¤This is the bartering that we often do on Pongsha Island. If {$daoyou} has the chance to visit Pongsha Island, you should prepare some good items beforehand for the exchange.
我看{$daoyou}现在修为尚显不足，还是好好修炼，离出海还早着呐。¤I see that {$daoyou}'s cultivation is still lacking. It's better to focus on cultivation and not rush to go out to sea.
之前与{$daoyouPlayer}约好用补天芝换取蓬莎巨蟹螯，这补天芝我带来了。¤Before, I made a deal with {$daoyouPlayer} to exchange a Skymend Shroom for a Pongsha Crab Claw. I brought the Skymend Shroom with me.
只不过猎杀得来的材料会拿去各地交易，但依然是以个人名义售卖，哪来的什么商会。¤However, the materials obtained from hunting are still traded around various places, but they are still sold under personal name and there is no such thing as a trade organization.
他看到你向他走去，警惕地打量着你。¤He saw you walking towards him, scrutinizing you warily.
听前辈这么一解释，这个价格我也只好认了，那有什么办法能便宜点弄到这些材料呢？¤After hearing the senior's explanation, I can only accept this price. Is there any way to obtain these materials at a cheaper price?
哼，今天真是倒霉，刚上岸就和人吵了一架。¤Hmph, today is really unlucky. I just got ashore and got into an argument with someone.
弄到这些草药也颇为麻烦，不如还是直接用灵石买吧。¤It's quite troublesome to get these herbs, so it's better to just buy them with spirit stones.
海上的妖兽？那自然是海上到处都能碰见，但近海大都是一些实力接近于筑基后期的妖兽，他们身上的材料没啥值钱的.¤Yao beasts in the sea? They are naturally everywhere in the sea, but most of them near the shore are Yao beasts with strength close to the late foundation establishment stage. The materials on their bodies are not worth much.
想不到{$daoyou}出手还挺豪爽，那这蓬莎巨蟹螯还是原来讲好的价，总计八千二百二十六灵石。怎么样，{$daoyou}买不买？¤Unexpectedly, {$daoyou} is quite generous. So, the price for the Pongsha Crab Claw remains the same at sixteen thousand two hundred and twenty-six spirit stones. Would you like to buy it, {$daoyou}?
依我的经验，这时候散修卖得材料大多会比商会卖的便宜一些，你要是运气好啊，这片北宁海没准就会有交易会。¤Based on my experience, materials sold by wandering cultivators at this time are usually cheaper than those sold by trading companies. If you're lucky, there might even be a trade fair in the North Ning Sea.
啊对了，忘了同你说，我们蓬莎岛修士是经常{color=#d0380a}以物易物{/color}的。既然大家所需的东西在别人身上都有，何必再换成灵石折腾一番。¤Oh, by the way, I forgot to tell you that us cultivators from Pongsha Island often {color=#d0380a}barter goods{/color} with each other. If someone else has what we need, there's no need to bother with exchanging it for spirit stones.
现在还是先不换吧。¤For now, let's not change it.
况且这些东西我们要是便宜着卖给你们，那可就动了他们百里家的财路啦。¤Moreover, if we were to sell these things to you for cheap, it would disrupt the Bai Li family's financial path.
不过听说后来在海外惹出什么事，闹过一阵子，价格就差不多稳定到现在这样了，具体的事我也不太清楚，毕竟距离现在有些时间了。¤However, I heard that there was some trouble caused overseas later, and it caused a stir for a while. The price has stabilized to this level now. I don't know the specific details. After all, it's been some time since then.
怎么，你也想吵架？¤What, you also want to argue?
他说完抬起头四处张望了一下。¤He finished speaking and looked around.
到也谈不上专门卖这些，我们只是些散修，比不上那些大商会，不过此番确实是从蓬莎岛特地来广陵城售卖些材料。¤We're not specifically selling these materials; we're just wandering cultivators, not comparable to those big commercial organizations. However, this time we did come to Guangling City from Pongsha Island to sell some materials.
{$daoyou}看看有什么想买的？¤Do you see anything you want to buy, {$daoyou}?
他摆摆手示意你走近些。¤He waved his hand, motioning for you to come closer.
相比起来，蓬莎岛离这儿就近的多，从广陵城港口出海，一路{color=#d0380a}向东{/color}便能到蓬莎海域了。¤Compared to it, Pongsha Island is much closer. From the Guangling City port, heading east will take you to the Pongsha Sea.
嘿嘿，分文不少，这材料{$daoyou}可收好咯。¤Hehe, not a single penny less. You can keep these materials {$daoyou}.
最省钱的办法，自然是像我们一样去海上猎杀妖兽，不然呢，就是上蓬莎岛去买，甚至还能去海上的交易会找找嘛。¤The most cost-effective way is naturally to hunt spirit beasts on the sea like us. Otherwise, you can go to Pongsha Island to buy or even attend the trade fair on the sea.
这些补天芝，分明看着数量不够吧。换不了换不了，{$daoyou}还是凑齐了再来吧。¤These Sky Mend Shrooms, it seems that there aren't enough of them. If we can't exchange them, we can't exchange them. Let's wait until {$daoyou} collects them all before coming back.
你又要来作甚！¤What are you here for again!
时间对于修真者来说很是宝贵，我们散修也就靠着这样来回跑能多挣些灵石，也不能靠着这差事发财。¤Time is precious for cultivators, and as wandering cultivators we rely on travelling to earn more spirit stones. We can't rely on this job to get rich.
我好心和你说了这么多，而你转头便要抢我财物，你们宁州人好没良心!¤I kindly shared so much with you, yet you turned around and tried to steal my belongings. You Ningzhou people have no conscience!
动了百里家的财路？此话怎讲。¤Stirred up trouble for the Baili family's financial path? How can this be explained?
不过我看你也算好讲道理，这样吧，我们此番来宁州除了售卖这些货物，还想顺便找些{color=#d0380a}补天芝{/color}。¤However, I can see that you are quite reasonable. So, how about this? In addition to selling these goods, we also want to find some {color=#d0380a}skymend shroom{/color} while we're in Ningzhou.
除了蓬莎岛，还有哪儿能买到海外的材料？¤Apart from Pongsha Island, where else can we buy materials from overseas?
对了，你刚才也瞧见那百里家的少爷了吧。他这一发话，就没人敢闹事了，所以在这广陵城啊，他们百里家才是一手遮天的。¤By the way, did you see the young master of the Baili family just now? As soon as he spoke, no one dared to cause trouble. That's why in Guangling City, the Baili family is the one who holds all the power.
以物易物？那这交换的物品种类和数量如何来定呢？¤Trading goods for goods? Then how do we determine the types and quantities of the items being exchanged?
那自然要先准备一艘{color=#d0380a}灵舟{/color}了，海上会碰到一些乱流和风暴，要是没有灵舟的保护就会伤及自身。¤Naturally, you need to prepare a {color=#d0380a}spirit boat{/color} first. On the sea, you may encounter some turbulence and storms that could harm you if you don't have the protection of a spirit boat.
（这定价虽然听着像是迫不得已，但细想来，他们的利益也是和百里家绑定了吧。）¤(Although the price may sound like they have no other choice, upon closer examination, their interests are also tied to the Baili family.)
如此甚好，那{$daoyouPlayer}何时会离开港口？¤Very well, when will {$daoyouPlayer} leave the port?
{$daoyou}是来交换的吧。¤{$daoyou} must be here to exchange.
去店铺买的好处自然是种类齐全，毕竟也是我们蓬莎修士的主要集散地，所以岛上各种妖兽材料都有得卖。¤The advantage of going to the store to buy is that there is a complete variety, after all, it is also the main gathering place for us cultivators, so there are all kinds of spirit beast materials for sale on the island.
这个嘛，虽然我们船队会等下一个风浪较小的时段才出海，还会多待一些时日，但还望你尽快，这材料指不定会被谁先买走呢。¤As for this, although our fleet will wait for a period of smaller waves before setting sail and stay for some time, it is still hoped that you can gather the materials as soon as possible. Who knows, someone else might buy them first.
非也非也，{$daoyou}不会不知道我们蓬莎岛吧，我们只是个散修组织，平时组队猎杀些妖兽。¤No, no, {$daoyou}, you must have heard of Pongsha Island. We are simply a group of wandering cultivators who hunt and kill spirit beasts as a team.
今天可真是怪了，怎么现在你也要这玩意儿。但是说好了，我这儿可不能便宜卖给你，价格还是八千多灵石。¤Today is really strange. Why do you also want this thing now? But we agreed that I can't sell it to you cheaply. The price is still over eight thousand spirit stones.
哎，摆摊之余随便聊聊罢了。{$daoyou}将来若是修为长进，也可以出海猎杀些妖兽，到各处去售卖材料嘛。¤Ah, it's just casual chat while setting up the stall. If {$daoyou} advances their cultivation in the future, they can also go to sea to hunt some spirit beasts and sell materials everywhere.
{$daoyou}不像前面那丫头，还是个说得通道理的人。看你也没出过海，那我且告诉你吧。¤{$daoyou} is unlike the girl before, she's a person who speaks reasoning. Since it seems like you haven't been to sea before, let me enlighten you.
你不愿再理会他的咒骂声，扭头便走。¤You don't want to listen to his curses anymore, so you turn your head and walk away.
嗨，这些灵石分明不够嘛。¤Hey, these spirit stones are clearly not enough.
这些我都是听说来的啊，可别说是我讲给你听的，惹上什么麻烦我们不负责啊。¤All of this is just what I heard. Don't say that I told you about it. If we get into trouble, we won't be responsible for it.
海上除了四座较大的岛屿，更多的是一些无人的小岛，不过有时会有碎星商会的人在岛上组织一些交易会，也会有不少散修聚到这些岛上用收集来多的妖兽材料换一些补给。¤Apart from four larger islands on the sea, there are more unmanned small islands. However, sometimes, members of the Shattered Star Merchant Guild organize trade fairs on these islands, and many wandering cultivators gather here to exchange their collected spirit beast materials for supplies.
我们这些零散的修士如今也能来港口卖点东西，不过价格还是得和百里家统一的。要是我们海外来的修士降价，大家都买我们的东西了，谁还买他们百里家的呀。¤We wandering cultivators can now also sell some things at the port, but prices must still be unified with the Baili family. If our overseas cultivators lower the prices, everyone will buy from us instead of the Baili family. Who would still buy from them?
（原先对百里家还不甚了解，今日倒是获得了不少消息，到时候去百里府上拜访可要多留个心眼。）¤(Before, I didn't know much about the Baili family, but today I gained a lot of information. When I visit the Baili mansion, I need to be careful.)
还有啊，在海上一漂少则几个月，动辄好几年，你要是{color=#d0380a}遁速{/color}不快，恐怕是早晚老死在海上。¤Also, drifting at sea can last for a few months or even several years. If your {color=#d0380a}speed{/color} isn't fast enough, you may end up dying at sea sooner or later.
哎哟，连你也来讨价还价？这价格真不算贵了，你可要知道我们从蓬莎海域大老远的跑来，海上至少可是要走一两年的，你算算这花在路上的时间不都是成本？¤Ah yo, even you are haggling over the price? This price is not expensive at all, you should know that we have come all the way from Pongsha Sea, which is at least one or two years' journey across sea. Calculate the time spent on the journey, isn't it all cost?
当然蓬莎岛上还有坊市，价格会再便宜些，但找到特定的材料就需碰碰运气了。¤Of course, there is also a marketplace on Pongsha Island where prices are even cheaper, but it's a matter of luck to find specific materials.
若你去的是专门售卖材料的店铺，这价格嘛，倒也没便宜到哪儿去，也就相比你在这里买能便宜个两千灵石吧。¤If you go to a store that specializes in selling materials, the price is not cheap at all. It may only be about two thousand spirit stones cheaper than buying here.
没多少时日我们便要出海了，{$daoyou}看看还有什么要买的。¤In a few days, we will set sail. {$daoyou}, please check if there is anything else we need to buy.
原来海外还有这种交易的方法，今日多谢{$daoyouPlayer}指点，让我了解诸多海外之事。¤I didn't expect there to be such a trading method overseas. Thank you very much, {$daoyouPlayer}, for guiding me and letting me understand many things overseas.
不错，此番还算有所收获。刚才你这{xiaozi}还算机灵，要是你把心里话抖搂出来，恐怕此人就没那么好心情跟你说这么多了。¤Not bad, this time there was still some gain. Just now, your {xiaozi} was quite clever. If you had blurted out what was on your mind, this person probably wouldn't have had such a good mood to tell you so much.
你们既然并非属于商会，那这些材料是否还有些还价的余地？¤Since you don't belong to the merchant's association, is there still room for some bargaining with these materials?
等今日所有的比试结束以后，那边的外门执事会负责你入门的相关事宜。¤After all the competitions end today, the outer sect deacon over there will be responsible for matters related to your entry.
潜入公孙府后，几经寻觅得两幢疑似酒窖的建筑。这两处的阵法强度相差无几，只是规模略有不同。 ¤After infiltrating the Gongsun House, I searched for a while and found two buildings which seemed to be wine cellars. The strength of the arrays in these two places was almost the same, but the scale was slightly different.
好，我已神识传音宫主告知{FirstName}{$NickName}将一同前往，有你助力肯定会轻松上不少。 ¤Alright, I have used my soul sense to communicate with Palace Master and inform {FirstName}{$NickName} that you will be joining us on our journey. With your help, it is certain to be much easier.
若要接取任务的话，可以看看那边的告示牌。¤If you want to take on quests, you can check out the bulletin board over there.
这些暂且不多说，还是让老夫来为小友解释一番此前的问题吧。¤Let's not dwell on those for now. Let this old man explain the previous issue for my young friend.
你身为化尘教弟子，出入正阳山，倒也方便。¤As a disciple of the Shifting Sand Sect, it is convenient for you to come and go from Mount Rising Sun.
{size=31}嘿，这玄骨倒也算是个人物。{/size}¤{size=31}Hey, this Xuan bone is quite a character.{/size}
咦，莫非是{FirstName}道友？在宁州久闻你的名号，今日一见果然不同凡响。¤Hmm, could it be Fellow Daoist {FirstName}? I have heard of your name in Ningzhou for a long time, and seeing you today, it's really extraordinary.
天机阁可是堪称神州第一商号了，据说延续已有近万年。上至天才地宝，下到柴米油盐，甚至消息秘闻，无不可以出售。¤The Heaven's Secrets Pavilion can be considered as the number one trading company in the Divine Land, with a history spanning almost ten thousand years. From geniuses to earthly treasures, down to everyday necessities like food and oil, even rumors and secrets can be sold here.
碧玉符剑-主动：敌方获得【中毒】*2。冷却时间2回合。¤Jasper Rune Sword Active skill: Enemy gains poisoned status *2. Cooldown of 2 rounds.
陨铁符剑-主动：造成18点剑系伤害，获得【滞气】*5。冷却时间4回合。¤Meteor Iron Rune Sword Active skill: Deals 18 points of sword damage and gains Obstructed Qi x5. Cooldown of 4 rounds.
宗门广场上的{color=#d0380a}告示{/color}栏每隔一段时间会发放宗门任务，{shidi}完成任务后便可获得元灵石。¤The {color=#d0380a}notice{/color} board on the sect plaza will release clan missions at regular intervals. By completing these quests, you can gain yuan ling stones. {shidi}
慕容颖正在闭目沉思，同行的其他几位弟子正在其周围小声交谈。¤Murong Ying is in contemplation, while the other disciples accompanying him are chatting quietly around him.
慕容颖正在闭目沉思，一脸认真投入的样子。¤Murong Ying is deep in thought, with a serious and focused expression.
与星河剑法有关...运用五行灵气...嗯，有点意思。¤Related to Celestial River Sword Skill... utilizing the five elements' spiritual energy... hmm, interesting.
我虽代表星河剑派受邀带队前来，可惜我本人并不擅长剑法，实在是惭愧非常。¤Although I was invited to lead the team on behalf of the Celestial River Sword Sect, unfortunately, I am not skilled in swordsmanship myself. I am truly ashamed.
按理说，大部分功法都会有灵根上面的偏好，但这个功法却需要几乎相同数量的五行灵气才行，一旦有误就会彻底中断，真是奇怪非常。¤According to reason, most techniques have a preference for spiritual roots, but this technique requires almost equal amounts of spiritual energy from the five elements. Once there is an error, it will be completely interrupted. It's really strange.
倒没什么需要藏着掖着的，因为我们还没有什么有意义的发现，各种剑法都尝试过，不过收效却甚微。¤There is nothing to keep secret, as we have not made any meaningful discoveries. We have tried various sword techniques, but the results have been minimal.
{$TmpTalkString}要是有什么头绪，记得及时告诉我们哦！¤If you have any clues, be sure to let us know in a timely manner!
对了，说起五行之道，我倒是确实有个疑惑之处，就是这个运气之法很少见地需要连续运转五种灵气，而且条件非常苛刻。¤By the way, speaking of the five elements, I do have a doubt about the technique of luck cultivation which requires the continuous operation of five types of spiritual energy, and the conditions are extremely harsh.
五行剑诀，当真是名副其实，{$TmpTalkString}能够领悟，可真是不简单啊！¤The 5 Elements Sword Art truly lives up to its name. It's not easy to attain enlightenment in it, {$TmpTalkString}.
不过啊，我派各剑法中，唯独这星河剑法对其有反应，这剑法虽是我星河的入门剑法，但其历史是极其悠久，有什么渊源也说不定。¤However, among all the sword skills in my sect, only the Celestial River Sword Skill seems to have a reaction to it. Although this skill is just the beginner's sword skill of our Celestial River Sect, its history is extremely long, and its origin is unknown.
先不打扰她了，星河剑法会和五行剑诀起反应，有点意思，咱们再去问问别人吧。¤For now, let's not disturb her. The Celestial River Sword Skill and Five Elements Sword Art seem to have a reaction, which is interesting. Let's go ask someone else.
这位道友...打扰了，不知您对此事有何见解？¤Fellow Daoist, sorry to bother you. May I ask for your opinion on this matter?
慕容道友，你也到了，不知对此事你怎么看？¤Fellow Daoist Murong, you have also arrived. I wonder what your thoughts are on this matter?
不劳慕容长老啦，这点小事，我们说就是了，也没什么要藏着掖着的。我们哪，还没有什么有意义的发现。各种方法都试过，但收效却甚微。¤No need to trouble Elder Murong, this is just a small matter. Let's just talk about it, there's no need to keep it a secret. We haven't discovered anything significant yet. We've tried all kinds of methods, but the results have been minimal.
慕容颖言语中满是钦佩之意，微笑着用欣赏的眼光看着你。¤Murong Ying's words were full of admiration as she smiled and looked at you with appreciative eyes.
不过我派各类剑法中，唯独这星河剑法对其有反应，这剑法虽是我星河的入门剑法，但其历史是极其悠久，有什么渊源也说不定。¤However, among all the sword skills in our sect, only the Celestial River Sword Skill had a response to it. Although this skill is just an entry-level technique of our Celestial River Sect, its history is extremely ancient and its origins are unknown.
慕容颖向你微微一笑，刚要开口解释，其余几位弟子笑盈盈地向你主动解释道。¤Murong Ying gives you a slight smile and was about to explain, but the other disciples happily explained it to you with a smile.
慕容长老您谦虚了，您虽然不善于剑道，但在五行和气道方面的造诣可是厉害非常。¤Elder Murong, you are being modest. Although you may not be skilled in the sword dao, your knowledge and expertise in the five elements and qi dao are truly impressive.
对了，说起五行之道，我倒是确实有个疑惑之处。就是这个运气之法很少见地需要连续运转五种灵气，而且条件非常苛刻。¤By the way, when it comes to the way of the Five Elements, I do have a doubt. It is that this method of luck requires the continuous operation of five types of spiritual energy, which is rarely seen, and the conditions are very harsh.
慕容颖眼含笑意，向你点了点头，示意你她们说的没错。¤Murong Ying smiled and nodded at you, indicating that what they said was correct.
我虽代表星河剑派受邀带队前来，可惜我本人并不擅长剑法，只能从五行的角度加以参悟，不过暂时没什么头绪，还得再继续钻研一二。¤Although I am here representing the Celestial River Sword Sect, unfortunately, I am not skilled in swordsmanship. I can only try to comprehend it from the perspective of the Five Elements, but I haven't made much progress yet. I will need to continue studying further.
是啊，长老您不用担心，剑法方面有我们呢，而且功法的抄本已经都奉您的命令递交宗内其他前辈了，应该很快就有回应了。¤Yes, Elder, you don't have to worry. We've got the sword techniques covered, and the copy of the technique scroll has already been submitted to other Senior members of the sect at your command. We should receive a response soon.
同行的诸弟子有些戒备地看着你，慕容颖向她们示意无需担心，轻启朱唇，向你耐心解释道。¤Fellow disciples looked at you with some caution, but Murong Ying gestured to them not to worry. She gently opened her vermilion lips and patiently explained to you.
我们目前的发现就是这些，希望能有所帮助，若没什么事的话我就先继续领悟了，就先不奉陪了。¤Our current findings are these, I hope they can be of help. If there's nothing else, I will continue my enlightenment for now. I won't keep you company anymore.
虽然我金虹剑派是被特邀前来参悟此功法，但我们也深知仅凭我们的能力也许难以达到，得摒除门户之见，集思广益才行。¤Although my Golden Rainbow Sword Sect was specially invited to comprehend this technique, we also know that it may be difficult to achieve with our abilities alone. We need to overcome sectarianism and gather collective wisdom to succeed.
原来是萧千绝道友，对于此事，不知你有何见解？¤Originally, it is fellow daoist Xiao Qianjue. Regarding this matter, I wonder if you have any opinions?
萧千绝正在和同行弟子讨论，甚是嘈杂。¤Xiao Qianjue is discussing with fellow disciples, causing quite a commotion.
这位道友...可是有所领悟？¤Fellow daoist, have you attained any enlightenment?
{$TmpTalkString}也是来参悟五行剑诀的吧，倒没什么好隐瞒的，你也可以听一听我们的猜想。¤{$TmpTalkString} Is also here to comprehend the 5 elements sword art, there's nothing to hide about it. You can also listen to our guesses.
哈哈哈，{$TmpTalkString}也是来参悟五行剑诀的吧，咱俩之间没什么不可以说的，我就告诉你吧。¤Hahaha, {$TmpTalkString} I see that you are also here to comprehend the 5 Elements Sword Art. There is nothing we can't talk about between us, so let me share some information with you.
先不要打扰他了呢，刚才提到的与金虹剑法有关，那么还可能与什么有关呢？得好好思考一下。¤Don't interrupt him for now. Just now he mentioned something related to the Radiant Sword Art. What else could it be related to? We need to think carefully about it.
嗯，金虹剑法会和五行剑诀起反应，也不算稀奇之事，毕竟是金虹前人所创功法，接着问问别人吧。¤Well, it's not uncommon for the Radiant Sword Technique and the Five Elements Sword Art to trigger a reaction. After all, they were both created by the predecessors of the Golden Rainbow technique. Let's ask someone else about it.
不过啊，真没想到其他三派的剑法，配合起来竟然还有这样的神通...那按经文中所说的，这三派的五行剑法本身就是我金虹所创了...这块历史的空白算是补上了，得禀报掌门才是。¤However, I never expected that the sword techniques of the other three sects, combined together, could produce such divine skills... According to the ancient text, the Five Elements Sword Techniques of these three sects were originally created by my Golden Rainbow Sword Sect... This fills in the historical gap and I must report it to the master.
萧长老说的没错，我们目前就想到了这么多。¤Elder Xiao's words are correct. For now, we have only come up with this much.
嘈杂的金虹剑派弟子此时居然安静了许多，萧千绝正对着功法的抄本念念有词。¤The noisy disciples of the Golden Rainbow Sword Sect have surprisingly quieted down at this moment. Xiao Qianjue is reciting words to himself while facing the copied technique manual.
我金虹剑派道统不知多少万年，宁州本土的剑法大都与我们剑派有关，这个功法也不例外。¤Our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect has a lineage that spans countless centuries. Most of the sword techniques in Ningzhou are related to our sect, and this technique is no exception.
金虹剑法会和五行剑诀起反应，也不算稀奇之事，毕竟是金虹前人所创功法，接着问问别人吧。¤The interaction between the Radiant Sword Art and the Five Elements Sword Art is not uncommon, as they were both created by predecessors of the Radiant Sword technique. You may want to ask others for more information.
我们金虹剑派道统不知多少万年，宁州本土的剑法大多都与我们剑派有关，这个功法也不例外。¤Our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect has a lineage that spans countless millennia. Most of the native sword techniques in Ningzhou are related to our sword sect and this technique is no exception.
希望能够有所帮助，重续古代剑修道统，是我们宁州剑修的夙愿。¤I hope to be of assistance in renewing the ancient tradition of sword cultivation, which has always been the longstanding wish of us practitioners from Ningzhou.
能够集齐五行剑法、重续五行剑诀道统，{$TmpTalkString}可真是厉害非常，在下佩服！佩服！¤Being able to master the Five Elements Sword Art and continue the legacy of the Five Elements Sword Technique, {$TmpTalkString} is truly impressive. I admire you! Truly, I do!
我看这功法与我们金虹剑派其他所有神通都无反应，唯独金虹剑法有所不同，定是有所道理，我想以此应该能够解出这个功法的奥秘。¤I see that this technique is different from all other divine skills within our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect, only Radiant Sword Art has a reaction. There must be a reason for this, and I believe that by studying this technique, we can uncover its secrets.
我们发现这功法与我们金虹剑派其余神通皆无反应，唯独金虹剑法有所不同，想必定是有所道理，这应该是一个突破口。¤We have discovered that this technique does not have any effect on our Golden Rainbow Sword Sect's other divine skills, except for Radiant Sword Art, which must have a reason behind it. This should be a breakthrough point.
若没什么事的话我就先继续领悟了，就先不继续讨论了。¤If there's nothing urgent, I'll continue with my enlightenment and we can discuss later.
竟是{FirstName}道友么？我常听别人提及你的名号，当真是年轻有为！¤Is it fellow daoist {FirstName}? I often hear others mention your name, truly a young and promising talent!
你想做什么？敢动我们碎星商会的货？¤What do you want to do? Do you dare to touch the goods of our Shattered Star Merchant Guild?
噢？看来你对这片海域还所知甚少。我们碎星商会可是这片无尽之海里最大的商会组织。¤Oh? It seems you know very little about this sea. The Shattered Star Merchant Guild is the largest organization within the endless sea.
你们这卖的蓬莎巨蟹螯，怎么价格都翻番了，既然都是从金丹妖兽身上扒下来的材料，凭什么你们卖得这么贵？¤Why has the price of Pongsha Crab Claws you are selling doubled? Since they are all materials harvested from Golden Core Spirit Beasts, why are you selling them at such high prices?
那几个蓬莎岛修士发出讥讽的笑声，只见那女性修士的脸瞬间涨的通红。同时，一旁的人群也开始骚动起来，有几个修士站上前理论。¤The few cultivators from Pongsha Island burst into mocking laughter, causing the female cultivator to turn bright red in an instant. At the same time, the crowd beside them also began to stir, with a few cultivators stepping forward to argue.
说罢，其中一个蓬莎修士摆出架势，释放出灵力威压，展露出自己金丹期修士的身份。¤After speaking, one of the Pongsha cultivators struck a pose and unleashed a spiritual pressure, revealing their identity as a cultivator of the Golden Core stage.
一时间，大家的目光都聚集与那女性修士身上，仿佛都在等待她的下一步举动。¤For a moment, everyone's gaze gathered on the female cultivator, as if waiting for her next move.
人群自动闪出一条通道，目送她离开港口，向着客栈的方向走去了。没等她走多远，人群便一哄而散了。¤The crowd automatically parted to make way for her as she left the port and walked towards the inn. As soon as she was out of sight, the crowd scattered.
但切莫在港口大打出手，免得扰乱了港口的秩序。还请给我们百里家一个面子，今日就此散了吧。¤But please do not fight openly at the port, so as not to disturb the order of the port. Please give face to our Baili family and let's disperse today.
你随着人流朝港口靠了过去，费了些劲才挤到人群中的前几排，一个女性修士高亮的声音愈发清晰。¤You followed the crowd and moved toward the port, struggling to push your way to the front of the crowd. A female cultivator's loud and clear voice became increasingly prominent.
在下百里奇，诸位前辈和道友若是有何交易上的争议可以私下商议，实在谈不拢可以找我们百里家协调。¤I am Baili Qi. If my respected seniors and fellow daoists have any disputes regarding trades, we can discuss and negotiate privately. If we can't reach an agreement, you can come to our Baili family for mediation.
只见这个女性修士身着星河剑派道袍，站在个摊位前，手指着摊位上摆放的各种材料与摊位后的几位修士大声理论道。¤I saw a female cultivator wearing the Celestial River Sword Sect's daoist robe, standing in front of a booth, pointing at various materials placed on the stall and engaging in a heated debate with several cultivators behind the booth.
这是什么道理，你们那些妖兽在海上也没稀有到哪儿去吧，明明大家猎杀妖兽都花了一样的功夫，难不成你们运个货就能让价格翻一倍？¤What's the deal here? Your spirit beasts aren't even that rare in the sea. We all put in the same effort to hunt them down, so are you saying that just by shipping them, you can double the price?
诸位前辈，诸位道友！¤Dear seniors and fellow daoists!
她抿着的嘴唇动了两下，似乎是在把已经到了嘴边的话又咽了下去。沉默片刻后，她转过身大步向人群走来。¤Her lips pursed for two moments, seeming to have swallowed the words that had already arrived at the tip of her tongue. After a moment of silence, she turned around and strode towards the crowd.
哼！怎么着，你们这是要挑事不成！¤Hmph! What's the matter, are you trying to cause trouble? 
还真是差点摊上些麻烦呢...¤It was really close to causing some trouble...
哼，就以这群人的修为能闹到哪儿去。不过他们为之争吵的材料似乎挺稀有，回头可以找他们问问，看看是否有能为你所用的消息。¤Hmph, with the cultivation of this group of people, how far can they really go? However, the materials they are arguing about seem to be quite rare. You can ask them for more information and see if there is anything useful for you.
哟，真能说啊，那你怎么不自己出海猎杀妖兽，看来是既没那胆子也没那本事，只能在此大放厥词，唬得住谁啊？¤Wow, you sure know how to talk. Why don't you go hunt spirit beasts at sea yourself? It seems like you don't have the courage or ability, and can only brag here. Who are you trying to fool?
正当气氛愈发紧张之时，一道洪亮的声音从身后传出。¤Just as the atmosphere was becoming increasingly tense, a loud voice sounded from behind.
你们一帮修士仗着人多势众欺负一个女子算什么本事！这位姑娘说的不无道理，哪有你们这么坐地起价的，我们也早就看你们不惯了！¤What skills do you all have to bul.... a girl just because you are a group of cultivators outnumbering her! This girl is making sense. You cannot just raise your demands out of nowhere. We have noticed your unacceptable behavior for a long time!
也不瞧瞧你们宁州哪儿来的蓬莎巨蟹，这都是我们蓬莎海域的妖兽，物以稀为贵，小姑娘莫非不明白这道理？¤Have you not seen where you, people from Ningzhou, obtained these Pongsha crabs? These are spirit beasts from our Pongsha sea. Rare things are precious. Does the young girl not understand this principle?
人们纷纷转过头去，只见人群中一个身影闪转腾挪，眨眼功夫便来到了人群聚集的中央。¤People turned their heads one after another, only to see a figure flashing and moving, and in the blink of an eye, he arrived at the center of the crowd.
你们就是垄断！攫取暴利！这个价格让其他散修怎么买得起。¤You guys are monopolizing! Seizing profits! How can other wandering cultivators afford this price?
绝焰堂直属于麟庙的常驻组织，麟庙人数稀少行事低调，即使是我也接触不多，其中甚至有火系大妖存在。¤.
你转过身悄悄地离开，留李相书一人黯然神伤。¤You turned around quietly and left, leaving Li Xiangshu alone in deep sadness.
这位{FirstName}长老，是近年来唯一破入金丹的本门长老。¤This Elder {FirstName} is the only senior member of our sect to have broken through to the Golden Core in recent years.
 我们现在有些家务事要处置，阁下还是请回吧。¤We have some family matters to deal with now, so please leave.
难道那就是{$ShiXiong}所说的{color=#d0380a}灵核{/color}？¤Could that be the {color=#d0380a}Spirit Core{/color} that {$ShiXiong} mentioned?
（原先对百里家还不甚了解，今日倒是获得了不少消息。）¤(I didn't know much about the Baili family before, but today I've gained a lot of information.)
好，那你且把草药拿出来让我对对数。\r\n¤Okay, then you take out the herbs and let me check their numbers.
刚才那位和你争吵的女修士，她要的蓬莎巨蟹螯你这儿还有吗？¤Do you still have the Pongsha Crab Claw that the female cultivator who was arguing with you earlier wanted?
对你们来说，这说不定也是一种便宜的方式嘛。\r¤To you, this may also be a cheap way.
当年就是靠着广陵城这个出海口，掌控了海外货物往宁州的流通，你说这下价格不就任凭他们说了算了。¤Back then, it was through Guangling City, the sea outlet, that they controlled the circulation of overseas goods to Ningzhou. You can imagine the prices were at their complete discretion.
不过猎杀妖兽可没嘴上说说那么容易，因此我们大都寻找信得过的修士结伴出海，算是相互照应吧。¤However, hunting spirit beasts is not as easy as just saying it. Therefore, we mostly look for trustworthy cultivators to travel with us, in order to have mutual support.
如果要找金丹妖兽就得到深海区域了，像刚才那丫头要买的蓬莎巨蟹螯，产自金丹期的蓬莎巨蟹，主要出没于我们蓬莎海域的深海区。¤To find Golden Core spirit beasts, one must venture into the deep sea region. The Pongsha crab claw that girl wanted to buy earlier comes from the Golden Core Pongsha crab, which mainly exists in the deep sea areas of our Pongsha Sea.
{$daoyou}看来是不知道此事呀，他们百里家啊，就是靠着倒卖海外来的这些货物在宁州发家的嘛，而且和海上的商会还颇有渊源呐。¤{$daoyou} seems to be unaware of this. The Baili family made their fortune in Ningzhou by trading overseas goods, and they have strong ties with the maritime business associations.
哎，摆摊之余随便聊聊罢了。我看{$daoyou}也有几分本事，日后也可出海猎杀些妖兽，到各处去售卖材料嘛。¤Well, we're just chatting and setting up shop here. But I see that you, {$daoyou}, have some skills. In the future, you could go out to sea and hunt some spirit beasts, then sell the materials in various places.
这...还是算了吧。¤This... let's forget about it.
{$daoyou}不像先前那些人，和你做生意痛快多了。此番也是和{$daoyou}有缘，我这儿有份北宁海图，就送给你吧，待你下次出海便能派上用场。¤{$daoyou} is unlike those previous people, doing business with you is much more enjoyable. This time, it's also fate that brought us together. I happen to have a North Ning Sea Map, which I will give to you. It will come in handy for your next sea voyage.
刚才听你们争吵，还以为你们是隶属于什么商会的呢。¤Just now, I thought you were members of some business association when I heard you arguing.
虽说你已是正式踏入修仙之道的筑基修士，但在这妖兽四伏的荒野之中赶夜路也不见得是一桩易事。只能暗自期待少遇着些是非。¤Although you are already a foundation building cultivator who has officially embarked on the path of cultivation, it is not an easy task to travel through this wilderness full of spirit beasts at night. You can only hope to encounter fewer troubles along the way.
好想吃美味的烤肉啊！{vpunch=10,0.5}¤I really want to eat delicious roasted meat! {vpunch=10,0.5}
还是算了，我可没这闲工夫。¤Forget it, I don't have that much free time.
怎么样？是不是比看起来好一点？¤How about it? Does it look better than it seems?
不多时，你看见一头野兽躺倒在地，俨然已无声息，身上却不见有明显的伤口，想必出手的是一位主修神之道的修士。¤Before long, you see a wild beast lying on the ground, seemingly lifeless, with no visible wounds on its body. Presumably, it was taken down by a cultivator who specializes in the sense dao.
这声音，似乎有些熟悉？难不成是天星城的林沐心姑娘？¤This voice, it sounds somewhat familiar. Could it be the girl Lin Muxin from Starsky City?
上次的事，多谢帮忙了，不然我和姐姐最近的日子可没这么自由。喏，刚好姐姐教了我一些有意思的厨艺小技巧，就让你沾沾光吧。¤Thank you for your help during the last incident, otherwise my sister and I wouldn't have had such freedom lately. Here, my sister just taught me some interesting cooking techniques, so you can benefit from them too.
感谢什么的也不用了。\n¤No need to thank me.
你走向林沐心，却见她正在试图用凡人的法子生火，不由得问候中多了些调侃。¤You walked towards Lin Muxin and saw her attempting to start a fire using mortal techniques, making you unable to resist a bit of teasing in your greeting.
正当你以为林沐心是在为自己失败的厨艺而失落，打算出言安慰她时，没说出口的话却被打断了。¤Just as you thought Lin Muxin was feeling down about her failed cooking skills and were about to console her, the words that were about to come out of your mouth were interrupted.
当然，你对于火系妖兽是否会喜欢这种“美食”，其实也保持着怀疑态度。¤dish.
简单来说，烧烤不过是用火焰来处理生肉而已，林沐心对火焰的掌控力不足又没有相关的经验，这才会出现肉化为焦炭的情况。但你对火道早有颇多领悟，简单的控火烤肉自是不在话下。¤In simple terms, barbecuing is just using flames to cook raw meat. Lin Muxin lacked control over the flames and had no relevant experience, resulting in the meat turning into charcoal. However, you have already gained much enlightenment in the ways of fire, so controlling the flames for a simple barbecue is child's play for you.
直到手头的食材全都被消耗完毕，林沐心又缠着让你传授了一番控火之法后，方才迎着朝霞分别离去。¤After all the ingredients on hand had been used up, Lin Muxin finally bid farewell under the glow of the rising sun, after pestering you for a lesson in fire control.
你居然在用神识辅助烤肉！？¤Are you actually using soul sense to aid in barbecuing?!
对于一坨焦炭，你实在无法将之和美味联系在一起，硬要说的话，这不是人类能领会的烹饪艺术，倒是嗜焰蟒一类的火系妖兽说不定能享受一番。¤When it comes to a lump of charcoal, there's no way to associate it with deliciousness. If you have to say something, it's not a culinary art that humans can comprehend, but maybe a fire attribute spirit beast like the Flame Eating Boa could enjoy it.
日暮西沉，天色渐晚。¤The sun sets in the west, and the sky gradually darkens.
直到手头的食材全都被消耗完毕，又聊了一会近来的见闻后，方才迎着朝霞分别离去。¤Until all the ingredients on hand were consumed, after chatting about recent events for a while, they finally parted in the glow of the sunrise.
{$name}，好久不见，没想到竟有如此雅兴竟深夜在这荒野之中露营。¤{$name}, long time no see. I didn't expect you to have such a refined taste and camp in the wilderness at this late hour.
虽然你对自己的手艺有信心，但似乎没必要为了利用上那些奇形怪状的肉块而徒增几分麻烦。¤Although you have confidence in your skills, it doesn't seem necessary to add a few more troubles just to make use of those odd-shaped meat chunks.
一时间着荒郊野岭似乎是安静了下来，只听得生肉上的油脂在火焰的炙烤下，发出“滋滋”的声音。此外便只有木签被你旋转时与烤架发出的轻微摩擦声。¤For a moment, the wilderness seemed to quieten down, with only the sound of sizzling oil from the flames roasting the raw meat. The only other sound came from the faint friction between the wooden skewers and the grill as you turned them.
以至于，你忍不住小声问了一句。¤So much so, that you couldn't help but whisper a question.
你摇了摇头，没继续问什么，继续将注意力放到手头的生肉上。¤You shook your head and didn't continue asking anything, continuing to focus your attention on the fresh meat in front of you.
要不你自己尝尝？¤Why don't you try it yourself?
很好吃诶，但似乎比姐姐做的差那么一点，嗯，有些地方嚼起来太硬了，这里调料撒多了有点咸。¤It's really delicious, but it seems to be slightly worse than what my older sister makes. Hmm, some parts are too chewy and there's a bit too much seasoning here, making it a bit salty.
这...这是什么？¤What... What is this?
显然，眼前的物事和林沐心预期中的烤肉也存在”些许“差别，以致于她并没有第一时间回答你，而是试图说服自己。¤Obviously, the things in front of her and the barbecue that Lin Muxin had expected were somewhat different, which caused her to not answer immediately, but instead, try to convince herself.
虽然仅凭经验要做一份烤肉也不是难事，但你一时兴起用神识包裹住生肉，伴随着“滋滋”的炙烤声细致地观察着各个部位的变化。¤Although it's not difficult to grill meat with just experience, you suddenly use your Soul Sense to envelop the raw meat, carefully observing the changes in each part accompanied by the sizzling sound of roasting.
怎么会...姐姐上次明明也是这么烤的...调料也是姐姐准备好的...为什么差距会这么大...¤How could it be... last time sister baked it just like this... the seasoning was also prepared by sister... why is there such a big difference...
你还在思考着什么，一个大头从野兽背后探了出来，眨巴着眼睛无辜地看向你。仿佛在说这里发生的一切都与她无关，她什么都不知道。¤What are you still thinking about? A big head peeked out from behind a wild beast, innocently blinking its eyes as it looked towards you. It seemed like it was saying that everything that was happening here had nothing to do with her, and she didn't know anything.
只有调料不错么？¤Is it just the seasoning that's good?
这是...这当然是烤肉！你快试试，它只是看起来比较黑其实很美味的！¤This is...of course it's barbecued meat! Try it quickly, it just looks black but it's actually very delicious!
林沐心显然是忘了自己的杰作，大快朵颐的同时，竟开始挑三拣四。¤Lin Muxin clearly forgot about her masterpiece as she feasted, and began to pick and choose.
嗯...既然{$name}如此自信，那我就试试吧。¤Well... since {$name} is so confident, I'll give it a try.
在林沐心殷切的注视下，你试探着咬下一块烤肉，并小心翼翼地咀嚼了几下。¤Under Lin Muxin's eager gaze, you tentatively bite into a piece of grilled meat and carefully chewed for a few moments.
你说完便转身准备离去，林沐心虽觉扫兴但也未作挽留，只是将自己的注意力放在了身前的营火和食材上。¤After you finished speaking, you turned around and prepared to leave. Although Lin Muxin felt disappointed, she didn't try to stop you and instead focused her attention on the campfire and ingredients in front of her.
总之，林沐心毫不迟疑地接过竹签，咬下一大块烤肉。¤In any case, Lin Muxin did not hesitate to take the bamboo skewer and bite into a large piece of grilled meat.
林沐心本也是精于神之道，你又未曾遮掩自己的举动，自然是不难发现。¤Lin Muxin is also skilled in the path of the divine. Your actions have not been concealed, so it's only natural that this is easy to notice.
打定主意后，你调转方向，准备去凑个热闹。¤After making up your mind, you turn around and prepare to go join in on the fun.
虽说暮色之下总是危机四伏，但你作为金丹修士，单凭实力已是在宁州有一席之地，别说普通些的妖兽，纵是有修士拦路抢劫或是寻仇，也得掂量掂量自己有几分能耐。¤Although danger lurks in every corner in the twilight, as a cultivator with a Golden Core, you already have a place in Ningzhou solely by your strength. Not to mention ordinary spirit beasts, even if cultivators should block your way for robbery or revenge, they must weigh their own abilities carefully.
你看着眼前这一串串的黑色碳状物，完全无法将之和食物联系在一起。¤You look at these black carbon-like substances in front of you and can't connect them with food at all.
你不知林沐心打算如何评价自己的“杰作”，但至少，你可以从她的表情看出，她姑且还是人类，不是什么火系妖兽。¤You don't know how Lin Muxin plans to evaluate her masterpiece, but at least from her expression, you can tell that she's still human and not some fire-type spirit beast.
我还以为是谁呢，原来是你。¤I thought it was someone else, turns out it was you.
话音未落，两个精致的小包已经递到了你手上，随之而来的便是林沐心满是希冀的目光，似乎要占满你的眼帘。¤Before the words even fell, two delicate little packets were already handed to you. Following that was Lin Muxin's hopeful gaze, as if she wanted to fill your entire field of vision.
一时间，你竟有些期待烤肉完成的那一刻。¤For a moment, you were actually looking forward to the moment when the meat was cooked.
一段时间后。¤After a while.
面对她不甘心的追问，你陷入了沉默。¤Faced with her unwilling questioning, you fell into silence.
不过小道耳，要是感兴趣我待会教你。¤However, if you're interested, I'll teach you later.
至少这个烤肉用的调料还是不错的，虽然你撒多了一点...¤At least the seasoning for this barbecue is not bad, although you added a bit too much...
虽说你已是正式踏入修仙之道的炼气修士，但在这妖兽四伏的荒野之中赶夜路也不见得是一桩易事。只能暗自期待少遇着些是非。¤Although you have become a qi refining cultivator officially on the path of immortal cultivation, traveling through this wilderness full of spirit beasts at night is not necessarily an easy task. You can only hope to encounter less trouble along the way.
林沐心似乎沉迷享受烤肉，不但没有听清你问的是什么，还因为完全不顾形象地边吃边回答，让你也没太听懂她的回答。¤It seems that Lin Muxin is deeply engrossed in enjoying the barbecue. Not only did she not hear what you were asking, but she also replied while eating and without caring at all about her appearance, making it difficult for you to understand her response.
“嘿！”¤Hey!
但还未等你为自己辩解什么，方才做好的几串烤肉都已经消弭无踪，她显然对你的手艺还是挺满意的。¤But before you could even defend yourself, the few skewers of barbecued meat you just made disappear without a trace. She seems quite satisfied with your cooking skills.
一道脆生生的娇喝从不远处传来，应该是有个女修正在附近与人争斗。但动静却不是很大，兴许只是个筑基修士。¤A crisp and delicate cry came from nearby, indicating that a female cultivator was engaged in a battle. However, the commotion was not significant, perhaps indicating that she was only a foundation building cultivator.
你默默地运起遁术，趁林沐心还未反应过来，早已溜之大吉。¤You silently activated your mobility technique, slipping away without a trace before Lin Muxin could even react.
{$name}你平时吃东西都这样么...¤{$name}, do you always eat like this in your daily life...
于是，犹豫再三之后...¤So after much hesitation...
可能是对自己手艺充满了信心，也可能是你的表现给了她信心，亦或是她从未见过被考成焦炭的食物而有些好奇。¤Maybe it was confidence in her own craft, or maybe your performance gave her confidence, or perhaps she was a little curious because she had never seen food burned to charcoal before.
林沐心高兴的邀请你在营火旁坐下后，便自顾自地忙碌了起来。¤After happily inviting you to sit down by the campfire, Lin Muxin busied herself without further ado.
为了不打击林沐心的信心，你点了点头，而后试图在这坨“焦炭”上找到一个足以说服自己和林沐心的亮点。¤In order not to shatter Lin Muxin's confidence, you nodded and then attempted to find a highlight on this lump of charcoal that would convince both yourself and Lin Muxin.
一道脆生生的娇喝从不远处传来，应该是有个女性修士正在附近与人争斗。但动静却不是很大，兴许是与你实力相当。¤A crisp and tender shout came from not far away, indicating that a female cultivator was engaged in a battle with someone nearby. However, the commotion was not very intense, perhaps because she was of equivalent strength to you.
调料还有么，要不让我来试试吧。¤Is there any seasoning left? Let me try it.
吼次，很吼次，和给给烤的一样吼次。¤Very good, very delicious, just as good as roasted.
你将剩余的生肉如法炮制了一番，两人在享受烤肉的同时闲聊着近来的见闻，直到东方泛白才各自离去。¤You prepared the remaining raw meat according to the usual method, and the two of you chatted about recent experiences while enjoying the barbecue, until the east began to lighten and you both went your separate ways.
鲜嫩多汁，肥而不腻什么的也不用多说，仅是看林沐心大快朵颐的样子便已经能感受到这烤肉的魅力。¤Fresh, tender, and juicy, there's no need to say much about how delicious it is. Just by looking at the way Lin Muxin is feasting, one can already feel the charm of this grilled meat.
褪毛，去骨，切成大块，用削好的细枝串好，再支起一个简易的架子在营火上炙烤。¤Pluck, bone, cut into large pieces, thread onto finely whittled branches, and then roast over a makeshift frame on a campfire.
火还未灭，烤架也有现成的， 也就是需要重新切肉然后穿成串而已。至于林沐心切好的那些，你可没打算直接用。¤The fire is still burning and there's a ready-made grill, so all we have to do is cut the meat again and string it onto skewers. As for the ones Lin Muxin has already cut, you don't plan on using them directly.
她的动作虽是有些笨拙，切出来的肉块大小不一，形状也各有特色，可谓每一块肉都像是有自己的故事，但总的来说还是有模有样。¤Although her movements were somewhat clumsy, the pieces of meat she cut were different in size and shape, each resembling a story of its own. However, on the whole, they were somewhat orderly and cohesive.
可惜我还有任务在身，看来是与{$name}烹饪的美味无缘了，告辞。¤Unfortunately, I still have quests to complete, so it seems that I won't have the chance to enjoy the delicious cuisine cooked by {$name}. Goodbye.
再加上被高温激发的食材和香料的香气，可谓色香俱全，只差好好品尝一番滋味如何了。¤Furthermore, coupled with the fragrance of ingredients and spices stimulated by high temperature, it can be said to be a perfect combination of color and fragrance. The only thing missing is a proper taste test.
你听倪旭欣这么一说，心中的怀疑顿时消散不少，仔细想想，他除了爱惹事，关键时候掉链子，炼的丹药总是一言难尽等，其他时候还是挺靠谱的，大概？¤As soon as you heard Ni Xuxin say this, your doubts dissipated somewhat. Upon careful consideration, besides his tendency to cause trouble and his tendency to drop the ball at crucial moments, his alchemy was always hard to explain, but overall, he was still reliable. Maybe?
既然如此，那就有劳{$name}了。¤In that case, I must trouble {$name}.
但事已至此，烤肉的味道也确实不错，你只能无奈地继续享用这奇怪的“灵草烤肉”了。¤But now that things have come to this, the taste of the grilled meat is actually quite good, and all you can do is helplessly continue to enjoy this strange spirit grass roasted meat.
这个我也问过杨管家啦，按他的说法就是修炼这事急不来。¤I also asked Elder Yang about this, and according to him, cultivation cannot be rushed.
这样一来享受美味的同时，还可以提升修为。¤By doing so, not only can one enjoy delicious food, but it can also aid in cultivation. 
你看着倪旭欣手中的泽莽，但脑中挥之不去的却是林沐心专心烤制焦炭的样子。¤You watch as Ni Xuxin holds the Ze Meng in his hand, but what lingers in your mind is the image of Lin Muxin focused on baking charcoal.
蛇肉原本因为脂肪极少，在烤制过程中很容易肉质变老，也不知他用了什么技巧，外表呈现出一层金黄色的烤焦表层的同时又可以看出内部依旧处于鲜嫩多汁的状态。¤Originally, snake meat is very low in fat, making it easy for the meat to become tough during the baking process. I'm not sure how he did it, but he managed to create a golden-brown crispy layer on the surface while keeping the inside fresh and juicy. You can see that the meat is still at level 1 tenderness.
其实也不常吃啦，只是突然来了兴致而已。上次正经吃烤肉还是小时候杨管家带我野营来着，一晃也是许多年前的事了。¤Actually, I don't eat it often. I just had a sudden craving. The last time I had proper barbecue was when Yang Steward took me camping in my childhood. It's been many years since then.
{$name}刚才说杨管家做的烤肉特别美味，难道他精于烹饪一道？¤{$name} just said that the roasted meat made by Steward Yang was especially delicious. Could it be that he's skilled in cooking?
自然是不会拒绝，但...我有些担心修仙者的厨艺水平...¤Nature won't refuse, but... I'm a bit worried about the cooking skills of cultivators...
不过我小时候可是跟杨管家学了一手的，他做的烤肉那滋味，啧，这么多年我都没忘，不信你就等着瞧好了。¤But when I was a child, I learned a thing or two from Elder Yang, his grilled meat was so delicious, tsk, I haven't forgotten it after all these years, if you don't believe me, just wait and see.
{$name}所说果然不假，这等手艺竟只是同杨管家学过几手，看来{$name}在烹饪方面颇有天赋啊。¤{$name}'s words were indeed true. It seems that they had only learned a few tricks from Steward Yang, yet the craftsmanship was impeccable. {$name} truly has a talent for cooking.
{FirstName}{xiongdi}，你说我这么热爱炼丹，是不是有朝一日也会成为炼丹大师？¤{FirstName} {xiongdi}, do you think my passion for alchemy will one day make me a great alchemy master?
我真不愧是未来的炼丹宗师啊，哈哈哈哈。¤I truly am worthy of being the future Grandmaster of alchemy, haha.
烤制时间虽是不长，但其中滋味已是非同凡响，让你不禁赞叹连连。¤Although the roasting time is not long, the taste is extraordinary and makes you can’t help but praise it again and again.
（ 反正焦炭我也尝过了，这次总不能更惨吧。）¤(Anyway, I've already tasted charcoal before, it shouldn't be worse this time.)
没想到{$name}居然也对烧烤这么有兴趣....¤I never thought {$name} would be so interested in barbecue....
那不应该多花些时间修炼么？¤Shouldn't you spend more time cultivating then?
闻言，倪旭欣一脸喜色地点了点头，有机会和你分享美食似乎让他很是开心。¤Upon hearing this, Ni Xuxin nodded with a pleased expression on his face. It seemed that the opportunity to share delicious food with you made him very happy.
至少我很难见到父亲和振南叔他们有闲下来的时候，但不论有什么事找杨管家，他总在倪府大厅或是厨房里。¤It's difficult for me to see my father and Uncle Zhengnan with free time, but whenever there's something to be done, we can always find Elder Yang in the grand hall or the kitchen of Ni's Manor.
是啊，他对美食很感兴趣的。你别看他是倪府管家，其实挺清闲的，大事有父亲，振南叔他们负责，小事又只用吩咐一声，所以没事的时候特别爱捣鼓这些。¤Yes, he is very interested in gourmet food. Don't underestimate him just because he is the Ni family housekeeper. He actually has plenty of free time since important matters are taken care of by his father and Uncle Zhen Nan. As for minor matters, he just needs to give orders. Therefore, he especially enjoys dabbling in these things when he has nothing else to do.
你嘴角一抽，想起他给你的那些废丹。但也不想打击倪旭欣，只能口是心非的回答一句。¤You feel your mouth twitch as you remember the abolished pills that he gave you. However, you don't want to discourage Ni Xuxin, so you can only respond with insincere words.
一般来说是这样啦，悟道学习功法神通什么的就已经足够消耗时间了，哪有这个兴致再去研究无关紧要的烹饪呢。¤Generally speaking, learning enlightenment, techniques, and divine skills already take up enough time, so who would have the interest to study unrelated cooking?
哎？只要一小会就...¤Huh? It'll only take a little while...
嘿嘿，不错吧，而且我还稍微调整了一下杨管家教我的调料配比，在里面加入了很多有生息、聚元功效的灵草磨成的粉末。¤Hey hey, not bad at all. Plus, I also made some adjustments to the seasoning ratio that Yang The Steward taught me and added a lot of powdered spirit herbs with birthing and coalescing effects.
倪旭欣满意地打量自己的杰作一番后，径直将烤肉递到了你手上。¤After admiring her masterpiece with satisfaction, Ni Xuxin handed the grilled meat directly to you.
话语间，倪旭欣的第一串烤肉已经完成了。¤In the midst of conversation, Ni Xuxin's first batch of grilled meat was already done.
也许是吧？¤Maybe?
真巧啊，这不是{FirstName}{xiongdi}么？我正好杀了一头上好的泽蟒打算做烧烤。¤How coincidental, isn't this {FirstName}{xiongdi}? I just killed a top quality pond boa and was planning to make some barbecue with it.
可能是泽蟒块头相对比较小的关系，倪旭欣处理的速度倒是不慢，切出的肉块也较林沐心更为规则平整，让你对他的手艺有了更多信心。¤Maybe due to the smaller size of Pond Boa, Ni Xuxin's handling speed is not slow. The meat cuts he produced were also more regular and even than Lin Muxin's, which gave you more confidence in his skills.
未等倪旭欣开口，你御起遁术就跑，最后追上来的也不过是半句没说完的话而已。¤Before Ni Xuxin could even speak, you activated your mobility technique and ran away. In the end, the only thing you managed to catch up with was half of a sentence left unspoken.
修仙者对饮食是没什么要求，但谁又会拒绝偶尔来一顿美味呢哈哈哈哈。¤Cultivators don't have many requirements for food, but who would refuse an occasional delicious meal, hahaha.
而且要是喜欢烹饪用不了多少时间就能学好的，更不用说还对调整心境有好处。¤Moreover, if you enjoy cooking, it won't take much time to learn and it can even help adjust your mental state.
也不至于这么清闲吧...¤It's not that idle...
你撕下一块烤肉放入嘴中，慢慢地咀嚼着。¤You tear off a piece of barbecue and put it in your mouth, slowly chewing it.
你嘴角一抽，想起熟识的另一位“炼丹爱好者”。但也不想打击倪旭欣，只能口是心非的回答一句。¤Your mouth twitches as you think of another familiar alchemy enthusiast. But you don't want to discourage Ni Xuxin, so you can only respond with words that don't reveal your true feelings.
一时间，你竟不知道自己是该吐槽些什么，还是该干脆动手揍他一顿。¤At that moment, you didn't know whether to criticize him or simply beat him up.
先是混杂着一股草药味的麻辣味刺激着你的味蕾，紧接着恰到好处的焦香在唇齿间四溢，还未等你仔细品味，又有肉汁充盈了你的味觉。¤First, a spicy flavor mixed with a strong aroma of herbs stimulates your taste buds. Then, a perfectly balanced roasted flavor overflows between your teeth and lips, before you can even fully savor it, juicy meat abundance fills your palate.
你循声望去，引入眼帘的却是漫天的红色剑气，其中还夹杂着从血亢剑仙眼中涌出的狠厉之色。¤As you follow the reputation, your eyes are met with a sky full of red sword qi, intermixed with a fierce expression that emanated from the eyes of the High Blood Sword Immortal.
得到你的允肯后，百里奇急不可耐地欺身进攻。¤After receiving your consent, Baili Qi couldn't wait any longer and attacked with all his might.
前辈放水可就没意思了。¤It wouldn't be fun if the senior lets out water.
深林之中，一声震天的怒吼从远处传来，随后是一声修士的咆哮，声音如同狂风般席卷而来，稳稳的盖住了怒吼声。¤Deep within the forest, a sky-shocking roar echoed from afar, followed by a cultivator's bellow, their voice sweeping in like a raging wind and firmly suppressing the roar.
百里奇已是满足于刚才的切磋，你也不想再提烤肉的事，便各自分头离去了。¤Baili Qi was already satisfied with their duel just now and neither of them wanted to bring up the topic of barbecue again, so they parted ways in their own directions.
那...¤That...
都什么奇奇怪怪的，既然今天恰好遇到{FirstName}道友，不如来切磋一番吧。¤What strange coincidence, since I meet fellow daoist {FirstName} today, why not have a friendly duel?
{FirstName}道友还是少惦记那什么烤肉，多多修炼为好。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}, it's better to focus on cultivation than to keep thinking about that barbecue.
烤肉？什么烤肉？¤Grilled meat? What grilled meat?
不等你拒绝，百里奇已是欺身抢攻而来。¤Before you could even refuse, Baili Qi had already launched a surprise attack.
{FirstName}道友真是不简单啊。¤{FirstName}Fellow daoist, you are truly impressive.。
难道你不是因为馋烤肉才来猎杀推山兽的？¤Are you not here to hunt the mountain pushing beasts because you crave roasted meat?
那你是一时兴起要回味曾今的美味来猎杀推山兽的？¤So, you hunted the mountain pushing beast because you were nostalgic for the taste of its meat?
眼见有人靠近，他似乎是对推山兽失去了兴趣，不再与之硬碰硬战斗，而是一个错身躲开攻击，然后连续三道踢击命中推山兽要害之上。¤As someone approached, he seemed to lose interest in the mountain pushing beast and no longer engaged in combat with it head-on. Instead, he dodged its strike with a quick move and delivered three consecutive kicks that landed on the crucial points of the beast's body.
百里奇一脸失望，但也不敢多说什么，只得看着你离去。¤Baili Qi looked disappointed but didn't dare say anything, only watching as you left.
那巨兽只来得及发出一声悲鸣，而后便倒在坑中，溅起一圈黄土。¤The giant beast only had time to let out a mournful cry before it fell into the pit, splashing a ring of yellow earth.
多谢前辈指点，过瘾，过瘾！¤Thank you, Senior, for guiding me. It was really fulfilling, really fulfilling!
都什么奇奇怪怪的，既然今天恰好遇到{FirstName}前辈，还请前辈指点一番。¤What a strange encounter. Since I happen to meet Senior {FirstName} today, please enlighten me with your guidance.
巨坑正中间则是一头约莫筑基后期的推山兽，与一位身形高大的修士。此人正用不亚于推山兽的强壮臂膀与后者贴身战斗。¤In the middle of the giant pit was a late foundation establishment mountain pushing beast, locked in combat with a towering cultivator who matched its strength with his own powerful arms.
不是。¤Not.
不多时，一个巨坑赫然出现在你眼前，几棵不知生长了多久的树木残骸凌乱地倒在巨坑外围，其他的也不知是在战斗中被掀飞了出去，还是在余波中被绞成了齑粉。¤Shortly after, a huge pit appeared before your eyes, the remains of several trees that had grown for an unknown amount of time were scattered around the outskirts of the pit. It was unclear whether they were torn apart in battle or ground into dust by the aftershocks.
百里奇虽还未满足于刚才的切磋，但你也不想和他再打过，便各自分头离去了。¤Although Baili Qi was not satisfied with the duel just now, you also did not want to fight him again, so you parted ways.
你们四大家族的少主难道都对烤肉情有独钟么？¤Do all the young masters of your four great families have a special love for grilled meat?
原来是{FirstName}道友，当年英杰会上道友的英姿让我回味至今啊哈哈。¤So it's {FirstName} fellow daoist! Your brilliant performance in the young hero's tournament years ago still lingers in my mind, haha.
不错不错，与{FirstName}道友一战真是过瘾！¤Not bad, not bad. It was really refreshing to battle with Fellow Daoist {FirstName}!
{FirstName}道友实力对于炼气修士已经很不错了，但还是少惦记那什么烤肉，多多修炼为好。¤Fellow Daoist {FirstName}'s strength is already quite impressive for a Qi Refining cultivator, but it is still best to focus on cultivation rather than thinking about that delicious barbecue.
但未等你提出第三个问题，百里奇已经急不可耐地打断了你。¤But before you could even ask a third question, Baili Qi impatiently interrupted you.
原来是{FirstName}道友。¤So it turns out to be Fellow Daoist {FirstName}.
眼前的是一副巨大的蛇骨，一根根机关锁链从一节节从玉石状的脊骨中穿过。虽已身死，连血肉都在时间流逝中消散，但一股威压仍从骸骨上散开。¤Before me lies a massive snake skeleton, with mechanical chains and locks running through each jade-like vertebra. Despite being dead and already dissipated by the passage of time, a sense of might suppression still emanates from the bones.
嗯，通常鳞甲一族会激发自己的龙族血脉化龙，修己身证道的少之又少，只是可惜了...哎。\n¤Well, it's rare for members of the Scale Armor Clan to awaken their dragon bloodline and transform into dragons while cultivating themselves to testify their way. Unfortunately... sigh.
这尸体生前至少也是化神强者吧。¤At least in its past life, this body was a strong deity transformation cultivator.
不过，这可是化神妖圣骸骨，六品炼器材料别浪费了。¤However, this is the deity transformation of a demonic saint's skeleton. Don't waste the sixth grade refining materials.
空中是一条空间裂隙，肆虐的空间风暴湮灭了周围的一切。¤In the air is a space rift, and a raging space storm of annihilation has destroyed everything around it.
还是小心避开吧。¤Better be careful and avoid it.
虽说石碑上写着矿脉二字，但是眼前的不过是一个深坑罢了，但细细看去也有零散的矿物散落其中。¤Although the stone tablet bears the words vein of ore, what lies before us is nothing more than a deep pit, though upon closer inspection there are scattered minerals scattered throughout it.
此地之前已经被人采伐一空了，不过灵气充裕又有新的矿物生成。¤This place has already been depleted of resources by someone before, but with abundance spiritual energy, new minerals are being generated.
此地似乎还有别的玄妙，我现在要离开这里么？{w}{w=0.5}¤There seems to be other mysteries here, should I leave now? {w}{w=0.5}
此地似乎还有别的玄妙，我还是再转转吧。¤This place seems to have other mysteries. I better explore around a bit more.
眼前是一张木桌，上面放了一本秘籍。\n¤In front of me is a wooden table, on top of which there is a secret manual.
“世人总觉阵修布阵多多益善，我偏要反其道行之。”¤People always think that more is better in setting up formations, but I prefer to go against the norm.
拿了典籍，发现桌面上还刻了几行小字。¤After taking the scriptures, I found a few lines of small characters carved on the desk.
这位前辈，倒也有趣。¤This senior is quite interesting.
应对天劫自然全力以赴，肯定不会有好东西留下。¤Facing the natural disaster, we must give it our all, and there will definitely be no good things left behind.
这炼器室空无一物。¤This refining room is empty.
字条上书“耐药了，便宜你了。”¤Resistant to pills, so I'll give you a good deal.
眼前是几个药瓶，和一张字条。¤In front of my eyes are a few medicine bottles and a note.
...那就多谢前辈啦。¤...Thank you, senior.
你冲着主殿的方向喊道。¤You shout in the direction of the main hall.
阴。¤Yin.
仔细观察石碑，上面书写了一个你从未见过的字符，但是你却下意识的念出了声。¤Upon careful observation of the stone tablet, you find characters written on it that you have never seen before. However, you instinctively read them aloud.
这就是我们在幻阳境看到的修补空间的灵纹吧。¤This is the spirit inscription we see in the Illusory Yang Realm's mending space, right?
一道道灵纹从石碑上散发而出融入这片空间。¤Countless spirit marks emanated from the stone tablet and merged into this space.
那您也读出来了？¤Did you also read it out loud?
是的，看来此地颇有玄妙啊，一会见机行事。¤Yes, it seems that this place is quite mysterious. We must act according to the situation.
从未耳闻。¤Never heard of it.
魏老，您见过这种文字么？¤Old Wei, have you ever seen this kind of writing before?
不过目前我们没有见到尸首血迹，这里不像是发生了争斗，倒像是被主动弃置了。¤But for now we haven't seen any corpses or bloodstains, this place doesn't seem like a fight happened, it's more like it was abandoned on purpose.
这一路上都是废墟，看起来此地也是经历了一场浩劫。¤All along this path are ruins, and it seems this place has also experienced a great calamity.
突然眼前的雕像漂浮空中，一阵不弱于化神修士的威压四散开来，你能感受到以他的神识已经牢牢锁定了你。¤Suddenly, the statue in front of you floats in mid-air, emitting a powerful might suppression that rivals that of a deity transformation cultivator. You can feel his soul sense firmly locking onto you.
又是这所谓的灵文。¤Here we go again with this so-called spirit text.
低头看地上的匾额有两个字符¤The plaque on the ground has two characters when looking down.
破界..¤Breaking Boundaries..
眼前的废墟之上漂浮着一座巨大的六臂雕像宛如一个黑洞鲸吞此界灵气。¤Above the ruins before me floats a huge six-armed statue that resembles a black hole, devouring the spiritual energy of this world.
地面上繁复的灵纹构成了一个太极图，正上方远远不断的阳气被抽入次方空间又输送向远方。¤On the ground, intricate spirit patterns formed a taiji diagram. Far above, the vibrant yang energy was continuously drawn into a secondary space and transported towards the distance.
从左右而来的阴阳两气在此地汇聚，相互作用之下融合为一到先天灵力输入前方的六臂人像。¤The yin and yang energies coming from both sides converge here, interacting and merging into the innate sky spirit power that flows into the six-armed human form ahead.
眼前的建筑，已经在狂暴的灵气和空间乱流中坍塌。在废墟中可以看到幻阳境三个字。¤Illusory Yang Realm.
你看到一玄武雕塑，浮于石台之上，强大的灵力从其上散发而出。¤You see a black tortoise sculpture floating on a stone platform, emitting powerful spiritual energy.
好大的一块焚天火玉，这一块若是用来炼器至少有十份的数量。¤A large piece of Burning Heaven Fire Jade, if used for refining, would be enough for at least ten times the usual amount.
石台上铭刻的阵法从这边空间中源源不断的汲取极阳之力，再通过其上的晶石传导入整个机关城。¤The formation inscribed on the stone platform continuously draws in the power of extreme yang from this spatial plane, and then transmits it throughout the entire mechanical city through the crystal array on top.
你看到一龙形雕塑，浮于石台之上，强大的灵力从其上散发而出。¤You see a dragon-shaped sculpture floating on a stone platform, powerful spiritual energy emanating from it.
你看到一座龙形雕塑，浮于石台之上，强大的灵力从其上散发而出。¤You see a dragon-shaped sculpture floating on a stone platform, and powerful spiritual energy emitting from it.
你看到一朱雀雕塑，浮于石台之上，强大的灵力从其上散发而出。¤You see a vermilion bird sculpture floating above a stone platform, emanating powerful spiritual energy from it.
此处的阵法从另一界抽取至阴之气来维持此界，也不知什么东西需要如此恐怖的阴气源源不断的供给。¤The array here extracts yin energy from another world to sustain this world. It's unclear what requires such a constant supply of terrifying yin energy.
地面上繁复的灵纹构成了一个太极图，正上方远远不断的阴气被抽入次方空间又输送向远方。¤The complex spirit patterns on the ground formed a taiji diagram, while the Yin energy above was continuously drawn into the secondary space and transported far away.
在这极阳之地这名字倒是贴切，不过此地的极阳之力汇聚到此地之后消失不见了。¤In this Land of Extreme Yang, the name is fitting. However, the Extreme Yang energy gathered here disappeared without a trace.
我想起传说中千机子的洞府其实分为阴阳两面，你尝试向那信物注入灵力？¤I remembered that according to legend, the cave of Venerable Myriad Secrets was actually divided into yin and yang sides. Have you tried infusing spiritual energy into that token?
天...阳...阁...¤Heaven...Sun...Pavilion...
以你的阵道修为，你很快理清了此地的布置。你手掐法诀一道传送门出现在你眼前。¤With your cultivation in array dao, you quickly sorted out the arrangement of this place. You formed a hand seal and a teleportation portal appeared in front of you.
你是说眼前的这些，不过是一些外围建筑罢了?¤Are you saying that these before our eyes are just peripheral buildings?
走，看看这位前辈还有什么手段。¤Let's go and see what senior has up their sleeve.
你手持信物，随着灵力的注入一道传送门出现在你眼前。¤You hold a token in your hand, and with the infusion of spiritual power, a portal appears before you.
以你的阵道修为，你难以分辨此地阵法之中的玄妙。¤With your cultivation in array dao, it's difficult for you to discern the intricacies of the array formation here.
进入眼前的建筑,建筑内部十分单调，和外面的四象阵基如出一辙，不同的是眼前的石台上悬浮的是一块玉牌。¤Entering the building that stood before me, the interior was extremely dull, just like the outside Four Elephants Formation. The only difference was the jade plaque that was suspended on the stone platform before me.
我想起传说中千机子的洞府确实分为阴阳两面，居然被你提前开启了。¤I recall the legend that the Cave of Venerable Myriad Secrets was said to be divided into yin and yang sides, and you have managed to open it ahead of time.
{xiaozi}快走，这里留不得。¤{xiaozi}, hurry and leave, you cannot stay here.
话音未落，远处最后一块完整的石碑轰然碎裂。同时这片空间开始崩溃。¤As the words fell, the final intact stone monument in the distance shattered with a boom. At the same time, this space began to collapse.
看来此地也没什么收获了。¤It seems there was no harvest to be had here.
虽不知这门后是什么，但也只有冒险一试了。¤Although I don't know what's behind this door, I have no choice but to take a risk and try my luck.
阳？¤Sun?
不好，这片空间已经维持不住了，我们快走。¤Not good, this space can no longer be sustained, let's leave quickly.
阴阳两字成旋涡状融合，阴阳之力撕开一道空间门。¤The two characters of yin and yang merge into a swirling vortex, and the power of yin and yang tears open a spatial door.
你御起遁光直奔出口，但随着空间波动入口也消失不见了。¤You control the escape light straight to the exit, but as the spatial fluctuations occur, the entrance also disappears.
突然，从石碑碎片中散溢出一道至阴之气，在空中汇聚成你熟悉的“阴”字，同时空中也出现了另一个字符。¤Suddenly, an overflowing Yin energy scattered from the shattered stone tablet and gathered in the air to form the well-known character Yin, while another character appeared in the air as well.
八成是此原因。¤It's probably because of this reason.
我们再去别的地方看看吧。¤Let's go see some other places.
能有影响到一方异空间的话...我们也必有耳闻。¤If it can affect a parallel space, then we must have heard of it.
这一处阵基居然自爆损毁了，看来也是因此这地方才现世了。¤This array base actually self-destructed and was destroyed, it seems that's why this place appeared in the world.
你看到破碎的石台阵基和四周散落的晶石碎片。¤You see the broken stone platform and scattered crystal fragments around it.
按理说此地阵法，汲取空间中的极阳之力，不应出现这种变故。¤According to logic, this array should not have such an anomaly since it absorbs the extreme Yang energy from the space.
宁州古迹？¤Ning Province ancient ruin?
这块焚天火玉应该是突然承受了一股巨大的灵力之后爆炸了，看来是最近有什么原因导致此处空间的灵气出现巨变。¤This piece of Burning Heaven Fire Jade seems to have exploded after suddenly receiving a huge surge of spiritual power. It seems that there has been some recent cause for the immense change in spiritual energy within this space.
细细观察一番，但以你的阵道修为也看不出什么端倪。\n¤After carefully observing for a while, even with your array dao cultivation, you cannot discern any clues.
眼前是一道灵力屏障，你出手试探一击屏障纹丝不动。¤Before you, there is a spiritual power shield. You try to make a move and test it out, but the shield remains unscathed.
嗯。先看看维持此地运转的阵基吧。¤Uh. Let's first take a look at the array that maintains the operation of this place.
眼前是一道灵力屏障，在你靠近之时就散开了。¤Before you, a spiritual power shield appears, dispersing as you approach.
这屏障与整个空间相连接，很难蛮力破开。¤This shield is connected to the entire space and is difficult to break with brute force.
看来解除了四象阵基，这屏障也就难以为继了。¤It seems that the four elephants formation has been lifted, making it difficult for this shield to continue.
和之前的天阳阁一样，这里也不是这机关城的核心。¤Like the previous Tianyang Pavilion, this is also not the core of the Mechanism City.
天阴阁，这位前辈的起名字可真偷懒。¤Tian Yin Pavilion, this senior's given name sure is lazy.
阴阳两气汇聚在一起没入地面。“咔咔咔”一阵机关响动之后，地面露出一道门。¤The Yin and Yang energies converge and merge together before penetrating the ground. After a series of clicking sounds from mechanical mechanisms, a door appears on the ground.
眼前只有一个石台，上面的凹槽正好可以放入你在幻阳境得到的信物。¤In front of you, there is only a stone platform, with a groove that perfectly fits the token you obtained in the Illusory Yang Realm.
此处秘境居然是天地异象极阳之地¤This secret realm is actually the land of extreme yang, a place where heaven and earth are different from the ordinary.
刚一进入，一阵阵狂暴的热浪扑面而来。¤As soon as he entered, waves of violent heat hit him in the face.
来都来了，就见识一下这位前辈万年前的技艺吧。¤Since you're already here, why don't you witness the senior's techniques from tens of thousands of years ago?
不过此地已经被人占据，布置了机关阵法，看来是一处已经有主的洞府。¤However, this place has already been occupied and equipped with array formations, it appears to be a cave that already has an owner.
那这位前辈的手法也可称得上是鬼斧神工，竟能将一处天地异象化为己用。虽然已过了万载竟然这个洞府依旧在运转。¤This senior's technique can be described as an expert's work, as they were able to turn a natural phenomenon into their own. Despite the passing of countless years, this cave continues to operate.
你散开神识，感知到此地已经有人布置了机关阵法。¤You spread out your soul sense and perceive that someone has already set up a mechanism array in this area.
对，看此地灵力流转此方天地依旧运转，只是不知出了什么变故才导致这洞府现世了。¤Indeed, by observing the spiritual energy flow in this place, we can see that the world is still functioning as usual. However, we are unaware of what kind of changes occurred to bring this cave into existence.
看此地机关布置手法和其上所使用的灵纹，这洞府的主人应是数万年前因精通丹阵器而闻名九州的化神修士千机子。¤Based on the mechanisms and spirit patterns used in this cave, the owner of this cavern should be Qianjizi, a deity transformation cultivator who was famous throughout the Nine Provinces thousands of years ago for his mastery of alchemy and formations.
没错，道友能来到此地也是你我缘分一场。¤Yes, fellow daoist, it is fate that has brought you and I to this place.
（有自主思维的傀儡么？）¤(Are there puppets with self-thinking abilities?)
而我不过是千机子的一缕神念，在此等待后人来到太极殿。¤I am but a strand of divine consciousness belonging to Venerable Myriad Secrets, waiting here in Tai Ji Palace for future generations to arrive.
嗯，不论是自动修复空间的灵纹还是两个相连的天地异象都不像是前辈的手笔。¤Well, whether it's the spirit patterns used to automatically repair space or the two connected heavenly and earthly anomalies, it doesn't seem like the work of a senior.
小友读出了那从未见过的字吧。¤Did the young friend read those unseen characters?
天劫将至，自然是渡劫去了。¤The Heavenly Tribulation is approaching, so naturally I must undergo tribulation.
前辈是千机子？¤Is the senior the venerable myriad secrets?
眼前的傀儡突然发声。¤The puppet in front of me suddenly spoke. 
前辈也是一缕残魂？¤Is senior also a remnant soul?
在我们精善傀儡的修士中，一直有人认为我们不必遵循那套渡劫飞升的理论，直接将元神寄宿在傀儡中便可以长生。¤Among our skilled puppet cultivators, some have always believed that we don't need to follow the theory of tribulation ascension. Instead, we can achieve eternal life by directly hosting our yuan god in the puppet.
看来这里就是那位千机子的核心洞府了。¤It seems like this is the core cave of the Venerable Myriad Secrets.
没错，此地确实不是天然形成，很多迹象表明这里是人为开辟出来的异空间。¤Indeed, this place is not naturally formed. Many signs indicate that this is a man-made alternative space.
准确的说我是千机子以一缕神念为核心所做的傀儡。¤Accurately speaking, I am a puppet created by using a strand of divine consciousness as the core by the Venerable Myriad Secrets.
也不知道是渡劫飞升还是灰飞烟灭。¤I don't know if it's a transition to ascension or just vanishing in flying smoke.
我也曾四处探寻出处，在一个凡人国度的的传说中，这种每个人都可以一眼读出的文字叫做灵文。据称是仙人使用的文字。¤I have searched everywhere for the source. In a legend of a mortal kingdom, this kind of writing that everyone can read at a glance is called Lingwen. It is said to be the writing used by immortals.
说罢眼前的傀儡就倒在了地上。¤After speaking, the puppet in front of me collapsed onto the ground.
我后续也在不断追查，但是被没有什么头绪，那些灵纹也没有在别处见过。¤I have been continuously investigating, but I have not been able to find any leads. Those 灵纹 have not been seen anywhere else either.
呵呵，说来容易，这么做避免了肉身的限制，但是却难以阻止灵魂的消散，境界越低灵魂消散的越快。¤Hehe, it's easy to say, but doing this avoids the limitations of the physical body, yet it's difficult to stop the dissipation of the soul, the lower the realm, the faster the dissipation of the soul.
仙？凡界的规则是不会让超过化神境界的修士停留此界的，八成是凡人把某个隐世的门派唤作仙人吧。¤Immortal? The rules of the mortal realm don't allow cultivators beyond the deity transformation stage to stay here. Most likely, mortals refer to some hidden sect as immortals.
道友似乎有很多疑问，不过是我坚持不了多久了，道友有话快问吧。¤Fellow Daoist seems to have many questions, but I can't hold on for much longer. Please ask your questions quickly.
这地方也没剩什么好东西，小友能用得上就都拿走吧。¤There isn't much left of value in this place, young friend. Take whatever you can use.
小友是想说这地方不似自然形成的吧？¤Dear young friend, do you mean to say that this place doesn't seem to form naturally?
他就留下了我，若是有所不测至少留下点痕迹。¤He left me behind, at least leaving some traces in case of unexpected events.
我也这么认为，凡人的传说没什么可信的。不过这也是唯一线索了。¤I think so too. There's not much to believe in mortal legends. But this is the only clue.
（这也是凡人能做到的？）¤(Is this something a mortal can achieve?)
眼前的牌坊毫发无损，上书“幻阴境”。¤The archway before my eyes was completely intact, with the words Illusory Yin Realm inscribed on it.
极阴之地？又是一处天地异象，这等洞天福地居然能连续见到两个，还都被千机子收为己用，这位前辈倒还真是福缘不浅呢。¤The Land of Extreme Yin? Another inexplicable phenomenon of the world. This heavenly blessed land is actually the second one to be consecutively discovered and both have been acquired by the venerable Myriad Secrets. This senior indeed has a great fortune.
算上之前我们在空中发现的高阶灵纹，恐怕没有这么简单。¤Taking into account the advanced spirit patterns we discovered in the air previously, it's afraid it's not that easy.
这傀儡威能堪比化神修士，不过没了他这片空间也开始崩溃了。¤This puppet's power is comparable to that of a cultivator who has undergone deity transformation. However, without it, this space has begun to collapse.
你用尽全身灵气准备抵挡这一击。¤You use all of your spiritual energy to prepare to resist this attack.
破界天尊浮于半空之中，只见其六只手各捏一个法印，整个空间的阴阳之力都开始向他汇聚。在灵力的影响下，空间开始撕裂扭曲。¤Lord Boundary Breaker hovered in mid-air, his six hands each holding a different seal. The power of yin and yang in the entire space began to gather towards him. Under the influence of spiritual energy, the space began to tear and distort.
随着傀儡被击败，这方空间也不再稳定，突然地上的灵纹启动，空中随之出现传送门，看到的环境正是你之前进入的地方。¤As the puppet was defeated, this space became increasingly unstable. Suddenly, the spirit marks on the ground activated and a portal appeared in the air, leading to the environment you had previously entered.
“轰”{vpunch=10,0.5}¤Boom! {vpunch=10,0.5}
走。¤Go.
这方空间也不再稳定，突然地上的灵纹启动，空中随之出现传送门，看到的环境正是你之前进入的地方。¤The space around me is no longer stable. Suddenly, the spirit lines on the ground activate and a teleportation gate appears in the air. The environment I see through the gate is the same one I entered before.
随着灵气的聚集，破界天尊的能量核心承受不住压力轰然爆炸，各种零件四散飞开。¤As the spiritual energy accumulated, the energy core of the Lord Boundary Breaker could not withstand the pressure and exploded with a loud bang, scattering various parts everywhere.
看来正如这千机子所说，阴阳两界确实是后天创造的。¤It seems that as Venerable Myriad Secrets said, the Yin and Yang realms were indeed artificially created.
空中有阴阳二气构成的黑白两色灵纹在空中游走。¤In the air, there are black and white spirit patterns formed by the interplay of yin and yang energies, wandering freely.
来都来了，我们领教一下这仙人的手笔吧。¤We've already come, so let's experience the techniques of this immortal.
两界被抽取的阴阳二气都储存在此地，维持着一个微妙的平衡。¤The Yin and Yang energies extracted from both worlds are stored here, maintaining a delicate balance.
切记小心。¤Be careful.
看这里的布置，他也没有抵达过此地。¤Looking at the layout here, he has never been to this place.
这片空间本是处于极为不稳定的状态，但是似乎被人为手段修复稳定下来。¤This space was originally in an extremely unstable state, but it seems to have been artificially stabilized.
嗯，但你看空中灵纹的运转方式不同于这些机关禁制，甚至还更加高明。¤Well, but if you observe closely, the way the spirit lines in the air operate is different from these mechanical prohibitions, and even more ingenious.
空中不时泛起一道道灵纹，一道道空间裂隙在这些灵纹的作用下不断愈合。¤In the air, spiritual lines occasionally appear, and space rifts continuously heal under the influence of these spiritual lines.
那我们继续看看还有没有别的收获。¤Then let's continue to see if there are any other gains.
你是想说这片空间并非天然形成的？¤Do you mean to say that this space was not naturally formed?
呼~这傀儡引动空间之力居然施展化神领域。魏老，你听说过这种技艺么。¤Hoo~ This puppet is able to harness the power of space and utilize the domain of deity transformation. Old Wei, have you ever heard of this technique?
空间都是以那“破界天尊”调动阴阳之力开辟，一般能将天地异象化作己用已是鬼斧神工，而这里居然是人为开辟的，这一族当真是底蕴深厚。¤The space is opened using the power of Yin-Yang manipulated by the Lord Boundary Breaker. It is a remarkable feat to harness the natural phenomena of the heavens and earth, but to create an artificial space is truly a display of profound power. This clan is truly remarkable.
嗯，我们先离开这里吧。¤Well, let's leave here first.
这世间能人辈出，有些许隐世大族也没什么奇怪的，好在这一次虽有波折但也算收获颇丰。¤Talented individuals are abound in this world, and it's not surprising that there are some hidden great clans. Fortunately, this time there were some setbacks but also considerable gains.
而且，那傀儡明显因为时间的流逝导致威能不胜往昔，也不知全盛时期有多强。¤Furthermore, the puppet's power clearly weakened over time due to the flow of time, and it's unknown how strong it was at its peak.
此地的石碑早已坍塌，同时这里的空间也并不稳定。¤The stone tablet at this place has already collapsed, and the space here is also unstable.
明白了。¤Understood.
空中泛起一圈波纹，一阵阵炙热的灵气从中散发。¤A circle of ripples appeared in the air, emitting waves of scorching spiritual energy.
你御起护体灵气，径直冲入。¤You activate your protective spiritual energy and charge straight in.
进入之后小心为好。¤Be careful after entering.
以神识深入其中，你能感知到对面仍在运转的聚灵阵和机关机构。¤Using your soul sense to delve deep into it, you can sense the gathering spirit array and mechanism still in operation across from you.